content/en/functions/lang/Translate.md, before:

---
title: lang.Translate
description: Translates a string using the translation tables in the i18n directory.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  aliases: [T, i18n]
  related: []
  returnType: string
  signatures: ['lang.Translate KEY [CONTEXT]']
aliases: [/functions/i18n]
---

Let's say your multilingual site supports two languages, English and Polish. Create a translation table for each language in the `i18n` directory.

```text
i18n/
├── en.toml
└── pl.toml
```

The translation tables can contain both:

- Simple translations
- Translations with pluralization

The Unicode [CLDR Plural Rules chart] describes the pluralization categories for each language.

[CLDR Plural Rules chart]: https://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/43/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html

The English translation table:

{{< code-toggle file=i18n/en >}}
privacy = 'privacy'
security = 'security'

[day]
one = 'day'
other = 'days'

[day_with_count]
one = '{{ . }} day'
other = '{{ . }} days'
{{< /code-toggle >}}

The Polish translation table:

{{< code-toggle file=i18n/pl >}}
privacy = 'prywatność'
security = 'bezpieczeństwo'

[day]
one = 'miesiąc'
few = 'miesiące'
many = 'miesięcy'
other = 'miesiąca'

[day_with_count]
one = '{{ . }} miesiąc'
few = '{{ . }} miesiące'
many = '{{ . }} miesięcy'
other = '{{ . }} miesiąca'
{{< /code-toggle >}}

{{% note %}}
The examples below use the `T` alias for brevity.
{{% /note %}}

When viewing the English language site:

```go-html-template
{{ T "privacy" }} → privacy
{{ T "security" }} → security

{{ T "day" 0 }} → days
{{ T "day" 1 }} → day
{{ T "day" 2 }} → days
{{ T "day" 5 }} → days

{{ T "day_with_count" 0 }} → 0 days
{{ T "day_with_count" 1 }} → 1 day
{{ T "day_with_count" 2 }} → 2 days
{{ T "day_with_count" 5 }} → 5 days
````

When viewing the Polish language site:

```go-html-template
{{ T "privacy" }} → prywatność
{{ T "security" }} → bezpieczeństwo

{{ T "day" 0 }} → miesięcy
{{ T "day" 1 }} → miesiąc
{{ T "day" 2 }} → miesiące
{{ T "day" 5 }} → miesięcy

{{ T "day_with_count" 0 }} → 0 miesięcy
{{ T "day_with_count" 1 }} → 1 miesiąc
{{ T "day_with_count" 2 }} → 2 miesiące
{{ T "day_with_count" 5 }} → 5 miesięcy
```

In the pluralization examples above, we passed an integer in context (the second argument). You can also pass a map in context, providing a `count` key to control pluralization.

Translation table:

{{< code-toggle file=i18n/en >}}
[age]
one = '{{ .name }} is {{ .count }} year old.'
other = '{{ .name }} is {{ .count }} years old.'
{{< /code-toggle >}}

Template code:

```go-html-template
{{ T "age" (dict "name" "Will" "count" 1) }} → Will is 1 year old.
{{ T "age" (dict "name" "John" "count" 3) }} → John is 3 years old.
```

Commit message:

Describe lang.Translate fallback behavior

content/en/functions/lang/Translate.md, after:

---
title: lang.Translate
description: Translates a string using the translation tables in the i18n directory.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  aliases: [T, i18n]
  related: []
  returnType: string
  signatures: ['lang.Translate KEY [CONTEXT]']
toc: true
aliases: [/functions/i18n]
---

The `lang.Translate` function returns the value associated with given key as defined in the translation table for the current language.

If the key is not found in the translation table for the current language, the `lang.Translate` function falls back to the translation table for the [`defaultContentLanguage`]. 

If the key is not found in the translation table for the `defaultContentLanguage`, the `lang.Translate` function returns an empty string.

[`defaultContentLanguage`]: /getting-started/configuration/#defaultcontentlanguage

{{% note %}}
To list missing and fallback translations, use the `--printI18nWarnings` flag when building your site.

To render placeholders for missing and fallback translations, set 
[`enableMissingTranslationPlaceholders`] to `true` in your site configuration.

[`enableMissingTranslationPlaceholders`]: /getting-started/configuration/#enablemissingtranslationplaceholders
{{% /note %}}

Let's say your multilingual site supports two languages, English and Polish. Create a translation table for each language in the `i18n` directory.

```text
i18n/
├── en.toml
└── pl.toml
```

The translation tables can contain both:

- Simple translations
- Translations with pluralization

The Unicode [CLDR Plural Rules chart] describes the pluralization categories for each language.

[CLDR Plural Rules chart]: https://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/43/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html

The English translation table:

{{< code-toggle file=i18n/en >}}
privacy = 'privacy'
security = 'security'

[day]
one = 'day'
other = 'days'

[day_with_count]
one = '{{ . }} day'
other = '{{ . }} days'
{{< /code-toggle >}}

The Polish translation table:

{{< code-toggle file=i18n/pl >}}
privacy = 'prywatność'
security = 'bezpieczeństwo'

[day]
one = 'miesiąc'
few = 'miesiące'
many = 'miesięcy'
other = 'miesiąca'

[day_with_count]
one = '{{ . }} miesiąc'
few = '{{ . }} miesiące'
many = '{{ . }} miesięcy'
other = '{{ . }} miesiąca'
{{< /code-toggle >}}

{{% note %}}
The examples below use the `T` alias for brevity.
{{% /note %}}

When viewing the English language site:

```go-html-template
{{ T "privacy" }} → privacy
{{ T "security" }} → security

{{ T "day" 0 }} → days
{{ T "day" 1 }} → day
{{ T "day" 2 }} → days
{{ T "day" 5 }} → days

{{ T "day_with_count" 0 }} → 0 days
{{ T "day_with_count" 1 }} → 1 day
{{ T "day_with_count" 2 }} → 2 days
{{ T "day_with_count" 5 }} → 5 days
````

When viewing the Polish language site:

```go-html-template
{{ T "privacy" }} → prywatność
{{ T "security" }} → bezpieczeństwo

{{ T "day" 0 }} → miesięcy
{{ T "day" 1 }} → miesiąc
{{ T "day" 2 }} → miesiące
{{ T "day" 5 }} → miesięcy

{{ T "day_with_count" 0 }} → 0 miesięcy
{{ T "day_with_count" 1 }} → 1 miesiąc
{{ T "day_with_count" 2 }} → 2 miesiące
{{ T "day_with_count" 5 }} → 5 miesięcy
```

In the pluralization examples above, we passed an integer in context (the second argument). You can also pass a map in context, providing a `count` key to control pluralization.

Translation table:

{{< code-toggle file=i18n/en >}}
[age]
one = '{{ .name }} is {{ .count }} year old.'
other = '{{ .name }} is {{ .count }} years old.'
{{< /code-toggle >}}

Template code:

```go-html-template
{{ T "age" (dict "name" "Will" "count" 1) }} → Will is 1 year old.
{{ T "age" (dict "name" "John" "count" 3) }} → John is 3 years old.
```
