content/en/hugo-pipes/postcss.md, before:

---
title: PostCSS
description: Hugo Pipes can process CSS files with PostCSS.
date: 2018-07-14
publishdate: 2018-07-14
categories: [asset management]
keywords: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "pipes"
    weight: 40
weight: 40
sections_weight: 40
---

Any asset file can be processed using `resources.PostCSS` which takes for argument the resource object and a slice of options listed below.

The resource will be processed using the project's or theme's own `postcss.config.js` or any file set with the `config` option.

```go-html-template
{{ $css := resources.Get "css/main.css" }}
{{ $style := $css | resources.PostCSS }}
```

{{% note %}}
Hugo Pipe's PostCSS requires the `postcss-cli` JavaScript package to be installed in the environment (`npm install -g postcss postcss-cli`) along with any PostCSS plugin(s) used (e.g., `npm install -g autoprefixer`).

If you are using the Hugo Snap package, PostCSS and plugin(s) need to be installed locally within your Hugo site directory, e.g., `npm install postcss-cli` without the `-g` flag.
{{% /note %}}

### Options

config [string]
: Set a custom directory to look for a config file

noMap [bool]
: Default is `false`. Disable the default inline sourcemaps

inlineImports [bool]
: Default is `false`. Enable inlining of @import statements. It does so recursively, but will only import a file once.
URL imports (e.g. `@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Open+Sans&display=swap');`) and imports with media queries will be ignored.
Note that this import routine does not care about the CSS spec, so you can have @import anywhere in the file.
Hugo will look for imports relative to the module mount and will respect theme overrides.

skipInlineImportsNotFound [bool] {{< new-in "0.99.0" >}}
: Default is `false`. Before Hugo 0.99.0 when `inlineImports` was enabled and we failed to resolve an import, we logged it as a warning. We now fail the build. If you have regular CSS imports in your CSS that you want to preserve, you can either use imports with URL or media queries (Hugo does not try to resolve those) or set `skipInlineImportsNotFound` to true.

_If no configuration file is used:_

use [string]
: Space-delimited list of PostCSS plugins to use

parser [string]
: Custom PostCSS parser

stringifier [string]
: Custom PostCSS stringifier

syntax [string]
: Custom postcss syntax

```go-html-template
{{ $options := dict "config" "/path/to/custom-config-directory" "noMap" true }}
{{ $style := resources.Get "css/main.css" | resources.PostCSS $options }}

{{ $options := dict "use" "autoprefixer postcss-color-alpha" }}
{{ $style := resources.Get "css/main.css" | resources.PostCSS $options }}
```

## Check Hugo Environment from postcss.config.js

The current Hugo environment name (set by `--environment` or in config or OS environment) is available in the Node context, which allows constructs like this:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    require('autoprefixer'),
    ...process.env.HUGO_ENVIRONMENT === 'production'
      ? [purgecss]
      : []
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 2201ac0e5..2c0125b52
2c0125b52 Remove .Site.Author
2cf8841b3 Update partialCached.md (#1924)
385487191 Update data-templates.md (#1926)
ce207e141 Remove redundant markdown and fix a few typos (#1936)
3687c2953 Make heading id linkable, take 2
45c79bea7 Make heading id linkable
b22079344 Delete duplicates the lines 557-569 and 570-582. (#1934)
0a90dc122 Rework the taxonomy variables page (#1935)
7f8979c50 Update theme
26e682a3a Update multilingual.md
d40e7693f Update postcss.md
375d75c01 Update postcss npm instructions (#1931)
63020094a Emphasize Window shell selection (#1930)
56824be2c Update configuration.md
b7b8f16b3 Docu 'Theme components': minor fix (#1929)
09dc81a05 Remove Docker from BSD page (#1927)
205fea204 netlify: Hugo 0.108.0
6abe49c28 Merge commit 'da670c38ee63a7fef25e2b9f42519232055b60dc'
12b59a4c5 docs: Add basic doc for wrapStandAloneImageWithinParagraph etc.
ba07bd970 dartsass: Add sourceMapIncludeSources option

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: 2c0125b5290494d49334606c451446ebd9df3c21

content/en/hugo-pipes/postcss.md, after:

---
title: PostCSS
description: Hugo Pipes can process CSS files with PostCSS.
categories: [asset management]
keywords: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "pipes"
    weight: 40
weight: 40
---

Any asset file can be processed using `resources.PostCSS` which takes for argument the resource object and a slice of options listed below.

The resource will be processed using the project's or theme's own `postcss.config.js` or any file set with the `config` option.

```go-html-template
{{ $css := resources.Get "css/main.css" }}
{{ $style := $css | resources.PostCSS }}
```

You must install the required Node.js packages to use the PostCSS feature. For example, to use the `autoprefixer` package, run these commands from the root of your project:

```text
npm install postcss postcss-cli autoprefixer
```

### Options

config [string]
: Set a custom directory to look for a config file

noMap [bool]
: Default is `false`. Disable the default inline sourcemaps

inlineImports [bool]
: Default is `false`. Enable inlining of @import statements. It does so recursively, but will only import a file once.
URL imports (e.g. `@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Open+Sans&display=swap');`) and imports with media queries will be ignored.
Note that this import routine does not care about the CSS spec, so you can have @import anywhere in the file.
Hugo will look for imports relative to the module mount and will respect theme overrides.

skipInlineImportsNotFound [bool] {{< new-in "0.99.0" >}}
: Default is `false`. Before Hugo 0.99.0 when `inlineImports` was enabled and we failed to resolve an import, we logged it as a warning. We now fail the build. If you have regular CSS imports in your CSS that you want to preserve, you can either use imports with URL or media queries (Hugo does not try to resolve those) or set `skipInlineImportsNotFound` to true.

_If no configuration file is used:_

use [string]
: Space-delimited list of PostCSS plugins to use

parser [string]
: Custom PostCSS parser

stringifier [string]
: Custom PostCSS stringifier

syntax [string]
: Custom postcss syntax

```go-html-template
{{ $options := dict "config" "/path/to/custom-config-directory" "noMap" true }}
{{ $style := resources.Get "css/main.css" | resources.PostCSS $options }}

{{ $options := dict "use" "autoprefixer postcss-color-alpha" }}
{{ $style := resources.Get "css/main.css" | resources.PostCSS $options }}
```

## Check Hugo Environment from postcss.config.js

The current Hugo environment name (set by `--environment` or in config or OS environment) is available in the Node context, which allows constructs like this:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    require('autoprefixer'),
    ...process.env.HUGO_ENVIRONMENT === 'production'
      ? [purgecss]
      : []
  ]
}
```
