content/en/functions/after.md, before:

---
title: after
description: "`after` slices an array to only the items after the <em>N</em>th item."
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
keywords: [iteration]
signature: ["after INDEX COLLECTION"]
relatedfuncs: [last,first,seq]
---

The following shows `after` being used in conjunction with the [`slice` function][slice]:

```go-html-template
{{ $data := slice "one" "two" "three" "four" }}
{{ range after 2 $data }}
    {{ . }}
{{ end }}
→ ["three", "four"]
```

## Example of `after` with `first`: 2nd&ndash;4th most recent articles

You can use `after` in combination with the [`first` function] and Hugo's [powerful sorting methods][lists]. Let's assume you have a list page at `example.com/articles`. You have 10 articles, but you want your templating for the [list/section page] to show only two rows:

1. The top row is titled "Featured" and shows only the most recently published article (i.e. by `publishdate` in the content files' front matter).
2. The second row is titled "Recent Articles" and shows only the 2nd- to 4th-most recently published articles.

{{< code file="layouts/section/articles.html" >}}
{{ define "main" }}
<section class="row featured-article">
  <h2>Featured Article</h2>
  {{ range first 1 .Pages.ByPublishDate.Reverse }}
  <header>
      <h3><a href="{{ .Permalink }}">{{ .Title }}</a></h3>
  </header>
  <p>{{ .Description }}</p>
{{ end }}
</section>
<div class="row recent-articles">
  <h2>Recent Articles</h2>
  {{ range first 3 (after 1 .Pages.ByPublishDate.Reverse) }}
    <section class="recent-article">
      <header>
          <h3><a href="{{ .Permalink }}">{{ .Title }}</a></h3>
      </header>
      <p>{{ .Description }}</p>
    </section>
  {{ end }}
</div>
{{ end }}
{{< /code >}}

[`first` function]: /functions/first/
[list/section page]: /templates/section-templates/
[lists]: /templates/lists/#order-content
[slice]: /functions/slice/

Commit message:

Limit related pages for functions to other functions

content/en/functions/after.md, after:

---
title: after
description: Slices an array to the items after the Nth item.
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
keywords: []
namespace: collections
relatedFuncs:
  - collections.After
  - collections.First
  - collections.Last
signature: [after INDEX COLLECTION]
---

The following shows `after` being used in conjunction with the [`slice` function][slice]:

```go-html-template
{{ $data := slice "one" "two" "three" "four" }}
{{ range after 2 $data }}
    {{ . }}
{{ end }}
→ ["three", "four"]
```

## Example of `after` with `first`: 2nd&ndash;4th most recent articles

You can use `after` in combination with the [`first` function] and Hugo's [powerful sorting methods][lists]. Let's assume you have a list page at `example.com/articles`. You have 10 articles, but you want your templating for the [list/section page] to show only two rows:

1. The top row is titled "Featured" and shows only the most recently published article (i.e. by `publishdate` in the content files' front matter).
2. The second row is titled "Recent Articles" and shows only the 2nd- to 4th-most recently published articles.

{{< code file="layouts/section/articles.html" >}}
{{ define "main" }}
<section class="row featured-article">
  <h2>Featured Article</h2>
  {{ range first 1 .Pages.ByPublishDate.Reverse }}
  <header>
      <h3><a href="{{ .Permalink }}">{{ .Title }}</a></h3>
  </header>
  <p>{{ .Description }}</p>
{{ end }}
</section>
<div class="row recent-articles">
  <h2>Recent Articles</h2>
  {{ range first 3 (after 1 .Pages.ByPublishDate.Reverse) }}
    <section class="recent-article">
      <header>
          <h3><a href="{{ .Permalink }}">{{ .Title }}</a></h3>
      </header>
      <p>{{ .Description }}</p>
    </section>
  {{ end }}
</div>
{{ end }}
{{< /code >}}

[`first` function]: /functions/first/
[list/section page]: /templates/section-templates/
[lists]: /templates/lists/#order-content
[slice]: /functions/slice/
