content/en/functions/findRe.md, before:

---
title: findRE
description: Returns a slice of strings that match the regular expression.
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
keywords: [regex]
signature:
  - "findRE PATTERN INPUT [LIMIT]"
  - "strings.FindRE PATTERN INPUT [LIMIT]"
relatedfuncs: [replaceRE]
aliases: []
---
By default, the `findRE` function finds all matches. You can limit the number of matches with an optional LIMIT parameter.

When specifying the regular expression, use a raw [string literal] (backticks) instead of an interpreted string literal (double quotes) to simplify the syntax. With an interpreted string literal you must escape backslashes.

The syntax of the regular expression is the same general syntax used by Perl, Python, and other languages. More precisely, it is the syntax accepted by [RE2] except for `\C`.

This example returns a slice of all second level headings (`h2` elements) within the rendered `.Content`:

```go-html-template
{{ findRE `(?s)<h2.*?>.*?</h2>` .Content }}
```

The `s` flag causes `.` to match `\n` as well, allowing us to find an `h2` element that contains newlines.

To limit the number of matches to one:

```go-html-template
{{ findRE `(?s)<h2.*?>.*?</h2>` .Content 1 }}
```

{{% note %}}
You can write and test your regular expression using [regex101.com](https://regex101.com/). Be sure to select the Go flavor before you begin.
{{% /note %}}

[RE2]: https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax
[string literal]: https://go.dev/ref/spec#String_literals

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 1214f6ffb..36dd5483f
36dd5483f Clarify placement of 404 template
6f0a5f3f0 Update urls.Parse.md
c8070e578 Remove reference to Internet Explorer conditional comments (#1975)
3e3458f09 Describe default source map behavior for js.build (#1974)
08c9ed09a Simplify ordinal abbreviation example... (#1970)
b5aa8d598 docs(markdownify): mention a context limitation (#1968)
596af47f5 Fixing typo in configuration.md doc (#1966)
c47cadfcb Fix `hardWraps` config spelling (#1964)
5739a174e Add detail to tabWidth highlighting option
73a4bcd1f doc: Add hugo-lyra search engine (#1959)
6cc9ebdfd Update uniq function example (#1963)
686a65cf6 Update uniq.md
096f794d0 Update uniq.md
914ca0c38 remove `version` from SVG example (#1957)
58347d41f Update theme
7c806371f Fix 404 error for CloudCannon community learn docs (#1955)
58e42b03d Update theme
fd0385ee2 Update theme
513b7a43a Update findRe.md
4d39137ef Update configuration.md
b1c3b58a7 Update configuration.md
f827cce8d Update configuration.md
3d72ed8fb netlify: Hugo 0.110.0
e6f969c87 Merge branch 'feat/config-rename'
4c0b5a0b5 dos: Regen CLI docs
05d9db705 docs: Regen docshelper
f73bdb6e5 Merge commit 'ef6f101e75256c3bb88a6f1f3b5c1273bf8d7382'
e83141f88 Format config
4cadf795e Rename config.toml -> hugo.toml
c8aa8617f Move config/_default/config.toml -> config.toml
2943c031a Add fill HTTP Response info into .Data in resources.GetRemote

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: 36dd5483fb8efb6db4488bbaca5f6ac855f8ffea

content/en/functions/findRe.md, after:

---
title: findRE
description: Returns a slice of strings that match the regular expression.
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
keywords: [regex]
signature:
  - "findRE PATTERN INPUT [LIMIT]"
  - "strings.FindRE PATTERN INPUT [LIMIT]"
relatedfuncs: [replaceRE]
aliases: []
---
By default, the `findRE` function finds all matches. You can limit the number of matches with an optional LIMIT parameter.

When specifying the regular expression, use a raw [string literal] (backticks) instead of an interpreted string literal (double quotes) to simplify the syntax. With an interpreted string literal you must escape backslashes.

The syntax of the regular expression is the same general syntax used by Perl, Python, and other languages. More precisely, it is the syntax accepted by [RE2] except for `\C`.

This example returns a slice of all second level headings (`h2` elements) within the rendered `.Content`:

```go-html-template
{{ findRE `(?s)<h2.*?>.*?</h2>` .Content }}
```

The `s` flag causes `.` to match `\n` as well, allowing us to find an `h2` element that contains newlines.

To limit the number of matches to one:

```go-html-template
{{ findRE `(?s)<h2.*?>.*?</h2>` .Content 1 }}
```

{{% note %}}
You can write and test your regular expression using [regex101.com](https://regex101.com/). Be sure to select the Go flavor before you begin.
{{% /note %}}

## findRESubmatch

In Hugo 0.110.0 we added a variant of `findRe` that returns a slice of strings holding the text of the leftmost match of the regular expression in s and the matches, if any, of its subexpressions.

This:

```go-html-template
{{ findRESubmatch §§<a\s*href="(.+?)">(.+?)</a>§§ §§<li><a href="#foo">Foo</a></li> <li><a href="#bar">Bar</a></li>§§ | print | safeHTML }}
```

Will print:

```
[[<a href=\"#foo\">Foo</a> #foo Foo] [<a href=\"#bar\">Bar</a> #bar Bar]]
```

{{< new-in "0.110.0" >}}


[RE2]: https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax
[string literal]: https://go.dev/ref/spec#String_literals
