content/en/functions/int.md, before:

---
title: int
description: Casts a value to a decimal (base 10) integer.
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
keywords: [cast,strings,integers]
signature: ["int INPUT"]
relatedfuncs: []
---

With a decimal (base 10) input:

```go-html-template
{{ int 11 }} → 11 (int)
{{ int "11" }} → 11 (int)

{{ int 11.1 }} → 11 (int)
{{ int 11.9 }} → 11 (int)
```

With a binary (base 2) input:

```go-html-template
{{ int 0b11 }} → 3 (int)
{{ int "0b11" }} → 3 (int)
```

With an octal (base 8) input (use either notation):

```go-html-template
{{ int 011 }} → 9 (int)
{{ int "011" }} → 9 (int)

{{ int 0o11 }} → 9 (int)
{{ int "0o11" }} → 9 (int)
```

With a hexadecimal (base 16) input:

```go-html-template
{{ int 0x11 }} → 17 (int)
{{ int "0x11" }} → 17 (int)
```

{{% note %}}
Values with a leading zero are octal (base 8). When casting a string representation of a decimal (base 10) number, remove leading zeros:

`{{ strings.TrimLeft "0" "0011" | int }} → 11`
{{% /note %}}

Commit message:

Limit related pages for functions to other functions

content/en/functions/int.md, after:

---
title: int
description: Casts a value to a decimal (base 10) integer.
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
keywords: []
namespace: cast
relatedFuncs:
  - cast.ToFloat
  - cast.ToInt
  - cast.ToString
signature:
  - cast.ToInt INPUT
  - int INPUT
---

With a decimal (base 10) input:

```go-html-template
{{ int 11 }} → 11 (int)
{{ int "11" }} → 11 (int)

{{ int 11.1 }} → 11 (int)
{{ int 11.9 }} → 11 (int)
```

With a binary (base 2) input:

```go-html-template
{{ int 0b11 }} → 3 (int)
{{ int "0b11" }} → 3 (int)
```

With an octal (base 8) input (use either notation):

```go-html-template
{{ int 011 }} → 9 (int)
{{ int "011" }} → 9 (int)

{{ int 0o11 }} → 9 (int)
{{ int "0o11" }} → 9 (int)
```

With a hexadecimal (base 16) input:

```go-html-template
{{ int 0x11 }} → 17 (int)
{{ int "0x11" }} → 17 (int)
```

{{% note %}}
Values with a leading zero are octal (base 8). When casting a string representation of a decimal (base 10) number, remove leading zeros:

`{{ strings.TrimLeft "0" "0011" | int }} → 11`
{{% /note %}}
