content/en/functions/math.md, before:

---
title: Math
description: Hugo provides mathematical operators in templates.
keywords: [math, operators]
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
toc:
signature: []
relatedfuncs: []
---

| Function     | Description                                                                 | Example                             |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `add`        | Adds two or more numbers.                                                   | `{{ add 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `17`      |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ add 1.1 2 }}` &rarr; `3.1`      |
| `sub`        | Subtracts one or more numbers from the first number.                        | `{{ sub 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `7`       |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ sub 3 2.5 }}` &rarr; `0.5`      |
| `mul`        | Multiplies two or more numbers.                                             | `{{ mul 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `72`      |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ mul 2 3.1 }}` &rarr; `6.2`      |
| `div`        | Divides the first number by one or more numbers.                            | `{{ div 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `2`       |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ div 6 4.0 }}` &rarr; `1.5`      |
| `mod`        | Modulus of two integers.                                                    | `{{ mod 15 3 }}` &rarr; `0`         |
| `modBool`    | Boolean of modulus of two integers. Evaluates to `true` if result equals 0. | `{{ modBool 15 3 }}` &rarr; `true`  |
| `math.Ceil`  | Returns the least integer value greater than or equal to the given number.  | `{{ math.Ceil 2.1 }}` &rarr; `3`    |
| `math.Floor` | Returns the greatest integer value less than or equal to the given number.  | `{{ math.Floor 1.9 }}` &rarr; `1`   |
| `math.Log`   | Returns the natural logarithm of the given number.                          | `{{ math.Log 42 }}` &rarr; `3.737`  |
| `math.Max`   | Returns the greater of two or more numbers.                                 | `{{ math.Max 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `12` |  
| `math.Min`   | Returns the smaller of two or more numbers.                                 | `{{ math.Min 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `2`  |
| `math.Pow`   | Returns the first number raised to the power of the second number.          | `{{ math.Pow 2 3 }}` &rarr; `8`     |
| `math.Round` | Returns the nearest integer, rounding half away from zero.                  | `{{ math.Round 1.5 }}` &rarr; `2`   |
| `math.Sqrt`  | Returns the square root of the given number.                                | `{{ math.Sqrt 81 }}` &rarr; `9`     |

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 39af43ef1..1798dc0d5
1798dc0d5 Update theme
403fa716e Update CLI documentation (#2092)
aade5a09e Correct media subtype example
53cd9dea6 netlify: Hugo 0.112.3
b78b86cb1 Add source/target warning to resources.Copy (#2091)
50c299729 netlify: Hugo 0.112.2
73197046f Change config.xxx to hugo.xxx throughout the documentation (#2090)
d489d4c6f Add hugo.WorkingDir to docs (#2089)
7487df809 Fix typos (#2088)
6d0572cd6 netlify: Hugo 0.112.1
6838600b2 netlify: Hugo 0.112.0
513e7a80f Merge branch 'tempv0.112.0'
91eb44275 Some more about 0.112.0
bd3b33a27 docs: Regen docshelper
fb3027daf docs: Regen CLI docs
8e7b8e987 Merge commit 'f96384a3b596f9bc0a3a035970b09b2c601f0ccb'
a942ceef4 tpl/tplimpl: Add img loading attribute to figure shortcode  (#10927)
0e0c7b25e tpl/urls: Return empty string when JoinPath has zero args
310ce949a tpl/urls: Add JoinPath template function
ae435ca77 tpl: Add math.Abs
f340139f8 Revert "Update syntax-highlighting.md (#10929)" (#10930)
917a0e24d Update syntax-highlighting.md (#10929)

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: 1798dc0d54ce048dd975863b490cd809ef14268a

content/en/functions/math.md, after:

---
title: Math
description: Hugo provides mathematical operators in templates.
keywords: [math, operators]
categories: [functions]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: functions
toc:
signature: []
relatedfuncs: []
---

| Function     | Description                                                                 | Example                             |
|--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `add`        | Adds two or more numbers.                                                   | `{{ add 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `17`      |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ add 1.1 2 }}` &rarr; `3.1`      |
| `sub`        | Subtracts one or more numbers from the first number.                        | `{{ sub 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `7`       |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ sub 3 2.5 }}` &rarr; `0.5`      |
| `mul`        | Multiplies two or more numbers.                                             | `{{ mul 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `72`      |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ mul 2 3.1 }}` &rarr; `6.2`      |
| `div`        | Divides the first number by one or more numbers.                            | `{{ div 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `2`       |
|              | *If one of the numbers is a float, the result is a float.*                  | `{{ div 6 4.0 }}` &rarr; `1.5`      |
| `mod`        | Modulus of two integers.                                                    | `{{ mod 15 3 }}` &rarr; `0`         |
| `modBool`    | Boolean of modulus of two integers. Evaluates to `true` if result equals 0. | `{{ modBool 15 3 }}` &rarr; `true`  |
| `math.Abs`   | Returns the absolute value of the given number.                             | `{{ math.Abs -2.1 }}` &rarr; `2.1`  |
| `math.Ceil`  | Returns the least integer value greater than or equal to the given number.  | `{{ math.Ceil 2.1 }}` &rarr; `3`    |
| `math.Floor` | Returns the greatest integer value less than or equal to the given number.  | `{{ math.Floor 1.9 }}` &rarr; `1`   |
| `math.Log`   | Returns the natural logarithm of the given number.                          | `{{ math.Log 42 }}` &rarr; `3.737`  |
| `math.Max`   | Returns the greater of two or more numbers.                                 | `{{ math.Max 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `12` |  
| `math.Min`   | Returns the smaller of two or more numbers.                                 | `{{ math.Min 12 3 2 }}` &rarr; `2`  |
| `math.Pow`   | Returns the first number raised to the power of the second number.          | `{{ math.Pow 2 3 }}` &rarr; `8`     |
| `math.Round` | Returns the nearest integer, rounding half away from zero.                  | `{{ math.Round 1.5 }}` &rarr; `2`   |
| `math.Sqrt`  | Returns the square root of the given number.                                | `{{ math.Sqrt 81 }}` &rarr; `9`     |
