content/en/methods/resource/Data.md, before:

---
title: Data
description: Applicable to resources returned by the resources.GetRemote function, returns information from the HTTP response.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  related:
    - functions/resources/GetRemote
    - methods/resource/Err
  returnType: map
  signatures: [RESOURCE.Data]
---

The `Data` method on a resource returned by the [`resources.GetRemote`] function returns information from the HTTP response.

[`resources.GetRemote`]: /functions/resources/getremote/

```go-html-template
{{ $url := "https://example.org/images/a.jpg" }}
{{ with try (resources.GetRemote $url) }}
  {{ with .Err }}
    {{ errorf "%s" . }}
  {{ else with .Value }}
    {{ with .Data }}
      {{ .ContentLength }} → 42764
      {{ .ContentType }} → image/jpeg
      {{ .Status }} → 200 OK
      {{ .StatusCode }} → 200
      {{ .TransferEncoding }} → []
    {{ end }}
  {{ else }}
    {{ errorf "Unable to get remote resource %q" $url }}
  {{ end }}
{{ end }}
```

ContentLength
: (`int`) The content length in bytes.

ContentType
: (`string`) The content type.

Status
: (`string`) The HTTP status text.

StatusCode
: (`int`) The HTTP status code.

TransferEncoding
: (`string`) The transfer encoding.

[`resources.GetRemote`]: /functions/resources/getremote/

Commit message:

Document the responseHeaders option for resources.GetRemote

content/en/methods/resource/Data.md, after:

---
title: Data
description: Applicable to resources returned by the resources.GetRemote function, returns information from the HTTP response.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  related:
    - functions/resources/GetRemote
    - methods/resource/Err
  returnType: map
  signatures: [RESOURCE.Data]
---

The `Data` method on a resource returned by the [`resources.GetRemote`] function returns information from the HTTP response.

[`resources.GetRemote`]: /functions/resources/getremote/

```go-html-template
{{ $url := "https://example.org/images/a.jpg" }}
{{ $opts := dict "responseHeaders" (slice "Server") }}
{{ with try (resources.GetRemote $url) }}
  {{ with .Err }}
    {{ errorf "%s" . }}
  {{ else with .Value }}
    {{ with .Data }}
      {{ .ContentLength }} → 42764
      {{ .ContentType }} → image/jpeg
      {{ .Headers }} → map[Server:[Netlify]]
      {{ .Status }} → 200 OK
      {{ .StatusCode }} → 200
      {{ .TransferEncoding }} → []
    {{ end }}
  {{ else }}
    {{ errorf "Unable to get remote resource %q" $url }}
  {{ end }}
{{ end }}
```

###### ContentLength

(`int`) The content length in bytes.

###### ContentType

(`string`) The content type.

###### Headers

(`map[string][]string`) A map of response headers matching those requested in the [`responseHeaders`] option passed to the `resources.GetRemote` function. The header name matching is case-insensitive. In most cases there will be one value per header key.

[`responseHeaders`]: /functions/resources/getremote/#responseheaders

###### Status

(`string`) The HTTP status text.

###### StatusCode

(`int`) The HTTP status code.

###### TransferEncoding

(`string`) The transfer encoding.

[`resources.GetRemote`]: /functions/resources/getremote/
