content/en/hosting-and-deployment/hugo-deploy.md, before:

---
title: Hugo Deploy
description: Upload your site to GCS, S3, or Azure
categories: [hosting and deployment]
keywords: [deployment,s3,gcs,azure]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: hosting-and-deployment
    weight: 20
weight: 20
toc: true
---

You can use the "hugo deploy" command to upload your site directly to a Google Cloud Storage (GCS) bucket, an AWS S3 bucket, and/or an Azure Storage container.


## Assumptions

* You have completed the [Quick Start] or have a Hugo website you are ready to deploy and share with the world.
* You have an account with the service provider ([Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/), [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com), or [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)) that you want to deploy to.
* You have authenticated.
  * Google Cloud: [Install the CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk) and run [`gcloud auth login`](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/login).
  * AWS: [Install the CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html) and run [`aws configure`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html).
  * Azure: [Install the CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) and run [`az login`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
  * NOTE: Each service supports alternatives for authentication, including using environment variables. See [here](https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#services) for more details.
* You have created a bucket to deploy to. If you want your site to be
  public, be sure to configure the bucket to be publicly readable as a static website.
  * Google Cloud: [create a bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) and [host a static website](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/hosting-static-website)
  * Amazon S3: [create a bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/gsg/CreatingABucket.html) and [host a static website](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/WebsiteHosting.html)
  * Microsoft Azure: [create a storage container](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-portal) and [host a static website](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-static-website)


## Configuring your first deployment

In the configuration file for your site, add a `[deployment]` section
and a `[[deployment.targets]]` subsection. The only required parameters are
the name and URL:

```toml
[deployment]

[[deployment.targets]]
# An arbitrary name for this target.
name = "production"

# URL specifies the Go Cloud Development Kit URL to deploy to. Examples:
URL = "<FILL ME IN>"

# Google Cloud Storage -- see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#gcs
#URL = "gs://<Bucket Name>"

# Amazon Web Services S3; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3
# For S3-compatible endpoints, see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3-compatible
#URL = "s3://<Bucket Name>?region=<AWS region>"

# Microsoft Azure Blob Storage; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#azure
#URL = "azblob://$web"

```

## Deploy

To deploy to a target:

```bash
hugo deploy [--target=<target name>]
```

The deploy process recursively walks through your local publish directory
(`public` by default) and syncs it to the destination bucket, to ensure
that the local and remote contents match.

If you don't specify a target, Hugo will deploy to the first target in your
configuration.

See `hugo help deploy` or [the deploy command-line documentation][commandline] for more command-line options.


### How the file list works

The first thing `hugo deploy` does is create file lists for local and remote by
traversing the local publish directory and remote bucket.

For both local and remote, the file list includes and excludes files according to
the [deployment target's configuration][config] --
* If the configuration specifies an `include` pattern, all files
  are skipped by default except those matching the pattern.
* If the configuration specifies an `exclude` pattern, files matching the
  pattern are skipped.


{{% note %}}
When creating the local file list, a few additional skips apply: first, Hugo always
skips files named `.DS_Store`. 

Second, Hugo always skips local hidden directories
(directories with names starting with a period, e.g. `.git`) and does not
traverse into them, except for the special [hidden directory named
`.well-known`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_URI), which is
traversed if it exists.
{{% /note %}}



### How the local and remote file lists are compared

In the second step, Hugo compares the two file lists to figure out what changes
actually need to be made on the remote. File names are compared first; if the
local and remote files both exist then the sizes and md5sums are compared. Any
difference means that the file will be (re-)uploaded.

Specifying the `--force` flag will ensure all files are re-uploaded even
if Hugo cannot detect any differences between local and remote.

Files are deleted from the remote bucket if they are not present in the local
file list.

{{% note %}}
If a remote file is excluded from the file list generation using the
exclude/include configs, then the comparison step will not know to delete the
file -- so it will remain on the remote even if it isn't present locally.
{{% /note %}}

If the [`--confirm` or `--dryRun` flags][commandline] are given, Hugo displays 
what differences it has found and either pauses or stops here.

### How synchronization works

Hugo applies the list of changes to the remote storage bucket. Missing and/or
changed files are uploaded, and files missing locally but present remotely are
deleted. As files are uploaded, their headers are also configured on the remote
according to the matchers configuration.

{{% note %}}
As a safety measure to help prevent accidents, if there are more than 256 files
to delete, Hugo won't delete any files from the remote. Use the `--maxDeletes`
command line flag to override this.
{{% /note %}}

## Advanced configuration

Here's a full example deployment configuration:

```toml
[deployment]

# By default, files are uploaded in an arbitrary order.
# If you specify an `order` list, files that match regular expressions 
# in this list will be uploaded first, in the specified order.
order = [".jpg$", ".gif$"]

[[deployment.targets]]
# Define one or more targets, e.g., staging and production.
# Each target gets its own [[deployment.targets]] section.

# An arbitrary name for this target.
name = "mydeployment"
# The Go Cloud Development Kit URL to deploy to. Examples:
URL = "<FILL ME IN>"

# GCS; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#gcs
#URL = "gs://<Bucket Name>"

# S3; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3
# For S3-compatible endpoints, see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3-compatible
#URL = "s3://<Bucket Name>?region=<AWS region>"

# Azure Blob Storage; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#azure
#URL = "azblob://$web"

# You can use a "prefix=" query parameter to target a subfolder of the bucket:
#URL = "gs://<Bucket Name>?prefix=a/subfolder/"

# If you are using a CloudFront CDN, deploy will invalidate the cache as needed.
#cloudFrontDistributionID = "<FILL ME IN>"

# Include or exclude specific files when deploying to this target:
# If exclude is non-empty, and a local or remote file's path matches it, that file is not synced.
# If include is non-empty, and a local or remote file's path does not match it, that file is not synced.
# Note: local files that don't pass the include/exclude filters are not uploaded to remote,
# and remote files that don't pass the include/exclude filters are not deleted.
# 
# The pattern syntax is documented here: https://godoc.org/github.com/gobwas/glob#Glob
# Patterns should be written with forward slashes as separator.
# 
#include = "**.html" # would only include files with ".html" suffix
#exclude = "**.{jpg, png}" # would exclude files with ".jpg" or ".png" suffix

# Map any file named "<dir>/index.html" to the remote file "<dir>/". This does
# not affect the root "index.html" file, and it does not affect matchers below.
# This works when deploying to key-value cloud storage systems, such as Amazon
# S3 (general purpose buckets, not directory buckets), Google Cloud Storage, and
# Azure Blob Storage. This makes it so the canonical URL will match the object
# key in cloud storage, except for the root index.html file.
#
#stripIndexHTML = true


#######################
[[deployment.matchers]] 
# Matchers enable special caching, content type and compression behavior for
# specified file types. You can include any number of matcher blocks; the first one
# matching a given file pattern will be used.

# See https://golang.org/pkg/regexp/syntax/ for pattern syntax.
# Pattern searching is stopped on first match.
# This is not affected by stripIndexHTML, above.
pattern = "<FILL ME IN>"

# If true, Hugo will gzip the file before uploading it to the bucket.
# With many storage services, this will save on storage and bandwidth costs
# for uncompressed file types.
#gzip = false 

# If true, Hugo always re-uploads this file even if size and md5 match.
# This is useful if Hugo isn't reliably able to determine whether to re-upload
# the file on its own.
#force = false

# Content-type header to configure for this file when served.
# By default this can be determined from the file extension.
#contentType = ""

# Cache-control header to configure for this file when served.
# The default is the empty string.
#cacheControl = ""

# Content-encoding header to configure for this file when served.
# By default, if gzip is True, this will be filled with "gzip".
#contentEncoding = ""


# Samples:

[[deployment.matchers]]
# Cache static assets for 1 year.
pattern = "^.+\\.(js|css|svg|ttf)$"
cacheControl = "max-age=31536000, no-transform, public"
gzip = true

[[deployment.matchers]]
pattern = "^.+\\.(png|jpg)$"
cacheControl = "max-age=31536000, no-transform, public"
gzip = false

[[deployment.matchers]]
# Set custom content type for /sitemap.xml
pattern = "^sitemap\\.xml$"
contentType = "application/xml"
gzip = true

[[deployment.matchers]]
pattern = "^.+\\.(html|xml|json)$"
gzip = true
```

[Quick Start]: /getting-started/quick-start/
[commandline]: /commands/hugo_deploy/
[config]: #advanced-configuration

Commit message:

Describe and refer to the extended/deploy edition

content/en/hosting-and-deployment/hugo-deploy.md, after:

---
title: Hugo Deploy
description: Deploy your site directly to a Google Cloud Storage bucket, an AWS S3 bucket, or an Azure Storage container.
categories: [hosting and deployment]
keywords: [deployment,s3,gcs,azure]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: hosting-and-deployment
    weight: 20
weight: 20
toc: true
---

Use the `hugo deploy` command to deploy your site directly to a Google Cloud Storage bucket, an AWS S3 bucket, or an Azure Storage container

{{% note %}}
This feature requires the Hugo extended/deploy edition. See the [installation] section for details.

[installation]: /installation/
{{% /note %}}

## Assumptions

* You have completed the [Quick Start] or have a Hugo website you are ready to deploy and share with the world.
* You have an account with the service provider ([Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/), [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com), or [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)) that you want to deploy to.
* You have authenticated.
  * Google Cloud: [Install the CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk) and run [`gcloud auth login`](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/login).
  * AWS: [Install the CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html) and run [`aws configure`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html).
  * Azure: [Install the CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) and run [`az login`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
  * NOTE: Each service supports alternatives for authentication, including using environment variables. See [here](https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#services) for more details.
* You have created a bucket to deploy to. If you want your site to be
  public, be sure to configure the bucket to be publicly readable as a static website.
  * Google Cloud: [create a bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) and [host a static website](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/hosting-static-website)
  * Amazon S3: [create a bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/gsg/CreatingABucket.html) and [host a static website](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/WebsiteHosting.html)
  * Microsoft Azure: [create a storage container](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-portal) and [host a static website](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blob-static-website)


## Configuring your first deployment

In the configuration file for your site, add a `[deployment]` section
and a `[[deployment.targets]]` subsection. The only required parameters are
the name and URL:

```toml
[deployment]

[[deployment.targets]]
# An arbitrary name for this target.
name = "production"

# URL specifies the Go Cloud Development Kit URL to deploy to. Examples:
URL = "<FILL ME IN>"

# Google Cloud Storage -- see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#gcs
#URL = "gs://<Bucket Name>"

# Amazon Web Services S3; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3
# For S3-compatible endpoints, see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3-compatible
#URL = "s3://<Bucket Name>?region=<AWS region>"

# Microsoft Azure Blob Storage; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#azure
#URL = "azblob://$web"

```

## Deploy

To deploy to a target:

```bash
hugo deploy [--target=<target name>]
```

The deploy process recursively walks through your local publish directory
(`public` by default) and syncs it to the destination bucket, to ensure
that the local and remote contents match.

If you don't specify a target, Hugo will deploy to the first target in your
configuration.

See `hugo help deploy` or [the deploy command-line documentation][commandline] for more command-line options.


### How the file list works

The first thing `hugo deploy` does is create file lists for local and remote by
traversing the local publish directory and remote bucket.

For both local and remote, the file list includes and excludes files according to
the [deployment target's configuration][config] --
* If the configuration specifies an `include` pattern, all files
  are skipped by default except those matching the pattern.
* If the configuration specifies an `exclude` pattern, files matching the
  pattern are skipped.


{{% note %}}
When creating the local file list, a few additional skips apply: first, Hugo always
skips files named `.DS_Store`. 

Second, Hugo always skips local hidden directories
(directories with names starting with a period, e.g. `.git`) and does not
traverse into them, except for the special [hidden directory named
`.well-known`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_URI), which is
traversed if it exists.
{{% /note %}}



### How the local and remote file lists are compared

In the second step, Hugo compares the two file lists to figure out what changes
actually need to be made on the remote. File names are compared first; if the
local and remote files both exist then the sizes and md5sums are compared. Any
difference means that the file will be (re-)uploaded.

Specifying the `--force` flag will ensure all files are re-uploaded even
if Hugo cannot detect any differences between local and remote.

Files are deleted from the remote bucket if they are not present in the local
file list.

{{% note %}}
If a remote file is excluded from the file list generation using the
exclude/include configs, then the comparison step will not know to delete the
file -- so it will remain on the remote even if it isn't present locally.
{{% /note %}}

If the [`--confirm` or `--dryRun` flags][commandline] are given, Hugo displays 
what differences it has found and either pauses or stops here.

### How synchronization works

Hugo applies the list of changes to the remote storage bucket. Missing and/or
changed files are uploaded, and files missing locally but present remotely are
deleted. As files are uploaded, their headers are also configured on the remote
according to the matchers configuration.

{{% note %}}
As a safety measure to help prevent accidents, if there are more than 256 files
to delete, Hugo won't delete any files from the remote. Use the `--maxDeletes`
command line flag to override this.
{{% /note %}}

## Advanced configuration

Here's a full example deployment configuration:

```toml
[deployment]

# By default, files are uploaded in an arbitrary order.
# If you specify an `order` list, files that match regular expressions 
# in this list will be uploaded first, in the specified order.
order = [".jpg$", ".gif$"]

[[deployment.targets]]
# Define one or more targets, e.g., staging and production.
# Each target gets its own [[deployment.targets]] section.

# An arbitrary name for this target.
name = "mydeployment"
# The Go Cloud Development Kit URL to deploy to. Examples:
URL = "<FILL ME IN>"

# GCS; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#gcs
#URL = "gs://<Bucket Name>"

# S3; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3
# For S3-compatible endpoints, see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#s3-compatible
#URL = "s3://<Bucket Name>?region=<AWS region>"

# Azure Blob Storage; see https://gocloud.dev/howto/blob/#azure
#URL = "azblob://$web"

# You can use a "prefix=" query parameter to target a subfolder of the bucket:
#URL = "gs://<Bucket Name>?prefix=a/subfolder/"

# If you are using a CloudFront CDN, deploy will invalidate the cache as needed.
#cloudFrontDistributionID = "<FILL ME IN>"

# Include or exclude specific files when deploying to this target:
# If exclude is non-empty, and a local or remote file's path matches it, that file is not synced.
# If include is non-empty, and a local or remote file's path does not match it, that file is not synced.
# Note: local files that don't pass the include/exclude filters are not uploaded to remote,
# and remote files that don't pass the include/exclude filters are not deleted.
# 
# The pattern syntax is documented here: https://godoc.org/github.com/gobwas/glob#Glob
# Patterns should be written with forward slashes as separator.
# 
#include = "**.html" # would only include files with ".html" suffix
#exclude = "**.{jpg, png}" # would exclude files with ".jpg" or ".png" suffix

# Map any file named "<dir>/index.html" to the remote file "<dir>/". This does
# not affect the root "index.html" file, and it does not affect matchers below.
# This works when deploying to key-value cloud storage systems, such as Amazon
# S3 (general purpose buckets, not directory buckets), Google Cloud Storage, and
# Azure Blob Storage. This makes it so the canonical URL will match the object
# key in cloud storage, except for the root index.html file.
#
#stripIndexHTML = true


#######################
[[deployment.matchers]] 
# Matchers enable special caching, content type and compression behavior for
# specified file types. You can include any number of matcher blocks; the first one
# matching a given file pattern will be used.

# See https://golang.org/pkg/regexp/syntax/ for pattern syntax.
# Pattern searching is stopped on first match.
# This is not affected by stripIndexHTML, above.
pattern = "<FILL ME IN>"

# If true, Hugo will gzip the file before uploading it to the bucket.
# With many storage services, this will save on storage and bandwidth costs
# for uncompressed file types.
#gzip = false 

# If true, Hugo always re-uploads this file even if size and md5 match.
# This is useful if Hugo isn't reliably able to determine whether to re-upload
# the file on its own.
#force = false

# Content-type header to configure for this file when served.
# By default this can be determined from the file extension.
#contentType = ""

# Cache-control header to configure for this file when served.
# The default is the empty string.
#cacheControl = ""

# Content-encoding header to configure for this file when served.
# By default, if gzip is True, this will be filled with "gzip".
#contentEncoding = ""


# Samples:

[[deployment.matchers]]
# Cache static assets for 1 year.
pattern = "^.+\\.(js|css|svg|ttf)$"
cacheControl = "max-age=31536000, no-transform, public"
gzip = true

[[deployment.matchers]]
pattern = "^.+\\.(png|jpg)$"
cacheControl = "max-age=31536000, no-transform, public"
gzip = false

[[deployment.matchers]]
# Set custom content type for /sitemap.xml
pattern = "^sitemap\\.xml$"
contentType = "application/xml"
gzip = true

[[deployment.matchers]]
pattern = "^.+\\.(html|xml|json)$"
gzip = true
```

[Quick Start]: /getting-started/quick-start/
[commandline]: /commands/hugo_deploy/
[config]: #advanced-configuration
