content/en/installation/_common/04-build-from-source.md, before:

---
# Do not remove front matter.
---

## Build from source

To build the extended edition of Hugo from source you must:

1. Install [Git]
1. Install [Go] version 1.20 or later
1. Install a C compiler, either [GCC] or [Clang]
1. Update your `PATH` environment variable as described in the [Go documentation]

> The install directory is controlled by the `GOPATH` and `GOBIN` environment variables. If `GOBIN` is set, binaries are installed to that directory. If `GOPATH` is set, binaries are installed to the bin subdirectory of the first directory in the `GOPATH` list. Otherwise, binaries are installed to the bin subdirectory of the default `GOPATH` (`$HOME/go` or `%USERPROFILE%\go`).

Then build and test:

```sh
CGO_ENABLED=1 go install -tags extended github.com/gohugoio/hugo@latest
hugo version
```

[Clang]: https://clang.llvm.org/
[GCC]: https://gcc.gnu.org/
[Git]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git
[Go documentation]: https://go.dev/doc/code#Command
[Go]: https://go.dev/doc/install

Commit message:

Describe and refer to the extended/deploy edition

content/en/installation/_common/04-build-from-source.md, after:

---
# Do not remove front matter.
---

## Build from source

To build the extended or extended/deploy edition from source you must:

1. Install [Git]
1. Install [Go] version 1.20 or later
1. Install a C compiler, either [GCC] or [Clang]
1. Update your `PATH` environment variable as described in the [Go documentation]

> The install directory is controlled by the `GOPATH` and `GOBIN` environment variables. If `GOBIN` is set, binaries are installed to that directory. If `GOPATH` is set, binaries are installed to the bin subdirectory of the first directory in the `GOPATH` list. Otherwise, binaries are installed to the bin subdirectory of the default `GOPATH` (`$HOME/go` or `%USERPROFILE%\go`).

To build the standard edition:

```sh
go install github.com/gohugoio/hugo@latest
```

To build the extended edition:

```sh
CGO_ENABLED=1 go install -tags extended github.com/gohugoio/hugo@latest
```

To build the extended/deploy edition:

```sh
CGO_ENABLED=1 go install -tags extended,withdeploy github.com/gohugoio/hugo@latest
```

[Clang]: https://clang.llvm.org/
[GCC]: https://gcc.gnu.org/
[Git]: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git
[Go documentation]: https://go.dev/doc/code#Command
[Go]: https://go.dev/doc/install
