content/en/methods/page/Resources.md, before:

---
title: Resources
description: Returns a collection of page resources.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  related:
    - functions/resources/ByType
    - functions/resources/Get
    - functions/resources/GetMatch
    - functions/resources/GetRemote
    - functions/resources/Match
  returnType: resource.Resources
  signatures: [PAGE.Resources]
toc: true
---

The `Resources` method on a `Page` object returns a collection of page resources. A page resource is a file within a [page bundle].

To work with global or remote resources, see the [`resources`] functions.

## Methods

###### ByType

(`resource.Resources`) Returns a collection of page resources of the given [media type], or nil if none found. The media type is typically one of `image`, `text`, `audio`, `video`, or `application`.

```go-html-template
{{ range .Resources.ByType "image" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.ByType`] function.

###### Get

(`resource.Resource`) Returns a page resource from the given path, or nil if none found.

```go-html-template
{{ with .Resources.Get "images/a.jpg" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.Get`] function.

###### GetMatch

(`resource.Resource`) Returns the first page resource from paths matching the given [glob pattern], or nil if none found.

```go-html-template
{{ with .Resources.GetMatch "images/*.jpg" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.GetMatch`] function.

###### Match

(`resource.Resources`) Returns a collection of page resources from paths matching the given [glob pattern], or nil if none found.

```go-html-template
{{ range .Resources.Match "images/*.jpg" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.Match`] function.

## Pattern matching

With the `GetMatch` and `Match` methods, Hugo determines a match using a case-insensitive [glob pattern].

{{% include "functions/_common/glob-patterns.md" %}}

[`resources.ByType`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources.GetMatch`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources.Get`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources.Match`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources`]: /functions/resources/
[glob pattern]: https://github.com/gobwas/glob#example
[media type]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type
[page bundle]: /getting-started/glossary/#page-bundle

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 8390a4a3a..f0f4bcb24
f0f4bcb24 Update Batch.md
15a8b1de6 Update Batch.md
eb841ce66 Update theme
751097f24 Use CI_PAGES_URL in GitLab Pages workflow
8584a0581 Fix typos
b030a7149 Update configuration.md
f7ec2ee9c Revert "Update shortcode.md"
f8188f1c8 Update shortcode.md
083fc39c6 Update shortcode.md
d4bdfb96b Update Filter.md
ef00649db Document wrapperClass highlighting option
e227dc422 Hugo 0.140.2
b95d28444 Fix description of the the hugo server command
41ca381b0 Fix documentation of Fragments
73a6cd966 Update theme
2573fd120 netlify: Hugo 0.140.1
90b19ec0d Merge branch 'tempv0.140.1'
ad2e9aeec Update gocloud and docs for S3-Compatible Endpoints
34b30bad2 Remove indentation from include shortcode examples
97b4ef544 Update related.md
7234e0189 Update related.md
32cc191f6 Clarify Name and Title menu entry methods
bce733c63 Update theme
2f1843d10 Use .Page.GetPage in examples of an include shortcode
9e1c85bbd Revert "Document PAGE.String"
bb30e7c08 Document PAGE.String
2d151d77f Fix link
fbe2d442f Miscellaneous updates for v0.140.0
4d3195223 Update JS docs vs Hugo v0.140
8c190aabc netlify: Hugo 0.140.0
826005ffe Merge branch 'tempv0.140.0'
107289a2c Update theme (again)
9884425f9 Update theme
ff0a358d3 Update Go tool version in hugo.work
c9b23cf6d tpl/tplimpl: Update details shortcode
f29f19aff tpl/tplimpl: Add details shortcode

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: f0f4bcb243776d0552396d12758bd38cda779b62

content/en/methods/page/Resources.md, after:

---
title: Resources
description: Returns a collection of page resources.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  related:
    - functions/resources/ByType
    - functions/resources/Get
    - functions/resources/GetMatch
    - functions/resources/GetRemote
    - functions/resources/Match
  returnType: resource.Resources
  signatures: [PAGE.Resources]
toc: true
---

The `Resources` method on a `Page` object returns a collection of page resources. A page resource is a file within a [page bundle].

To work with global or remote resources, see the [`resources`] functions.

## Methods

###### ByType

(`resource.Resources`) Returns a collection of page resources of the given [media type], or nil if none found. The media type is typically one of `image`, `text`, `audio`, `video`, or `application`.

```go-html-template
{{ range .Resources.ByType "image" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.ByType`] function.

###### Get

(`resource.Resource`) Returns a page resource from the given path, or nil if none found.

```go-html-template
{{ with .Resources.Get "images/a.jpg" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.Get`] function.

###### GetMatch

(`resource.Resource`) Returns the first page resource from paths matching the given [glob pattern], or nil if none found.

```go-html-template
{{ with .Resources.GetMatch "images/*.jpg" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.GetMatch`] function.

###### Match

(`resource.Resources`) Returns a collection of page resources from paths matching the given [glob pattern], or nil if none found.

```go-html-template
{{ range .Resources.Match "images/*.jpg" }}
  <img src="{{ .RelPermalink }}" width="{{ .Width }}" height="{{ .Height }}" alt="">
{{ end }}
```

When working with global resources instead of page resources, use the [`resources.Match`] function.

###### Mount

{{< new-in "0.140.0" >}}

(`ResourceGetter`) Mounts the given resources from the two arguments base (`string`) to the given target path (`string`) and returns an object that implements [Get](#get). Note that leading slashes in target marks an absolute path. Relative target paths allows you to mount resources relative to another set, e.g. a [Page bundle](/content-management/page-bundles/):

```go-html-template
{{ $common := resources.Match "/js/headlessui/*.*" }}
{{ $importContext := (slice $.Page ($common.Mount "/js/headlessui" ".")) }}
```

This method is currently only useful in [js.Batch](/functions/js/batch/#import-context).


## Pattern matching

With the `GetMatch` and `Match` methods, Hugo determines a match using a case-insensitive [glob pattern].

{{% include "functions/_common/glob-patterns.md" %}}

[`resources.ByType`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources.GetMatch`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources.Get`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources.Match`]: /functions/resources/ByType/
[`resources`]: /functions/resources/
[glob pattern]: https://github.com/gobwas/glob#example
[media type]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type
[page bundle]: /getting-started/glossary/#page-bundle
