docs/content/en/templates/rss.md, before:

---
title: RSS Templates
linktitle: RSS Templates
description: Hugo ships with its own RSS 2.0 template that requires almost no configuration, or you can create your own RSS templates.
date: 2017-02-01
publishdate: 2017-02-01
lastmod: 2017-02-01
keywords: [rss, xml, templates]
categories: [templates]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "templates"
    weight: 150
weight: 150
sections_weight: 150
draft: false
toc: true
---

## RSS Template Lookup Order

See [Template Lookup Order](/templates/lookup-order/) for the complete reference.

{{% note "Hugo Ships with an RSS Template" %}}
Hugo ships with its own [RSS 2.0 template](#the-embedded-rssxml). The embedded template will be sufficient for most use cases.
{{% /note %}}

RSS pages are of the type `Page` and have all the [page variables](/variables/page/) available to use in the templates.

### Section RSS

A [section’s][section] RSS will be rendered at `/<SECTION>/index.xml` (e.g., [https://spf13.com/project/index.xml](https://spf13.com/project/index.xml)).

Hugo provides the ability for you to define any RSS type you wish and can have different RSS files for each section and taxonomy.

## Lookup Order for RSS Templates

The table below shows the RSS template lookup order for the different page kinds. The first listing shows the lookup order when running with a theme (`demoTheme`).

{{< datatable-filtered "output" "layouts" "OutputFormat == RSS" "Example" "OutputFormat" "Suffix" "Template Lookup Order" >}}

## Configure RSS

By default, Hugo will create an unlimited number of RSS entries. You can limit the number of articles included in the built-in RSS templates by assigning a numeric value to `rssLimit:` field in your project's [`config` file][config].

The following values will also be included in the RSS output if specified:

{{< code-toggle file="config" >}}
languageCode = "en-us"
copyright = "This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License."

[author]
    name = "My Name Here"
{{< /code-toggle >}}

## The Embedded rss.xml

This is the default RSS template that ships with Hugo:

<https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/tpl/tplimpl/embedded/templates/_default/rss.xml>

## Reference your RSS Feed in `<head>`

In your `header.html` template, you can specify your RSS feed in your `<head></head>` tag using Hugo's [Output Formats][Output Formats] like this:

```go-html-template
{{ range .AlternativeOutputFormats -}}
    {{ printf `<link rel="%s" type="%s" href="%s" title="%s" />` .Rel .MediaType.Type .Permalink $.Site.Title | safeHTML }}
{{ end -}}
```

If you only want the RSS link, you can query the formats:

```go-html-template
{{ with .OutputFormats.Get "rss" -}}
    {{ printf `<link rel="%s" type="%s" href="%s" title="%s" />` .Rel .MediaType.Type .Permalink $.Site.Title | safeHTML }}
{{ end -}}
```

Either of the two snippets above will generate the below `link` tag on the site homepage for RSS output:

```html
<link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" href="https://example.com/index.xml" title="Site Title">
```

_We are assuming `BaseURL` to be `https://example.com/` and `$.Site.Title` to be `"Site Title"` in this example._

[config]: /getting-started/configuration/
[embedded]: #the-embedded-rss-xml
[RSS 2.0]: https://cyber.harvard.edu/rss/rss.html "RSS 2.0 Specification"
[section]: /content-management/sections/
[Output Formats]: /templates/output-formats/#link-to-output-formats

Commit message:

rss: Add config variable to output full content
The RSS 2.0 specification states:
"An item's description element holds character data that contains the
item's full content or a summary of its contents, a decision entirely
at the discretion of the publisher."

So far, we do the latter only. But it can sometimes be useful to have
the full content included instead, so let's add a config variable to
also support the former.

docs/content/en/templates/rss.md, after:

---
title: RSS Templates
linktitle: RSS Templates
description: Hugo ships with its own RSS 2.0 template that requires almost no configuration, or you can create your own RSS templates.
date: 2017-02-01
publishdate: 2017-02-01
lastmod: 2017-02-01
keywords: [rss, xml, templates]
categories: [templates]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "templates"
    weight: 150
weight: 150
sections_weight: 150
draft: false
toc: true
---

## RSS Template Lookup Order

See [Template Lookup Order](/templates/lookup-order/) for the complete reference.

{{% note "Hugo Ships with an RSS Template" %}}
Hugo ships with its own [RSS 2.0 template](#the-embedded-rssxml). The embedded template will be sufficient for most use cases.
{{% /note %}}

RSS pages are of the type `Page` and have all the [page variables](/variables/page/) available to use in the templates.

### Section RSS

A [section’s][section] RSS will be rendered at `/<SECTION>/index.xml` (e.g., [https://spf13.com/project/index.xml](https://spf13.com/project/index.xml)).

Hugo provides the ability for you to define any RSS type you wish and can have different RSS files for each section and taxonomy.

## Lookup Order for RSS Templates

The table below shows the RSS template lookup order for the different page kinds. The first listing shows the lookup order when running with a theme (`demoTheme`).

{{< datatable-filtered "output" "layouts" "OutputFormat == RSS" "Example" "OutputFormat" "Suffix" "Template Lookup Order" >}}

## Configure RSS

By default, Hugo will create an unlimited number of RSS entries. You can limit the number of articles included in the built-in RSS templates by assigning a numeric value to `rssLimit:` field in your project's [`config` file][config].

By default, the built-in RSS templates outputs only the summary of an article in the RSS feed, not the full content.
This behavior can be changed by assigning `true` to the `services.rss.fullContent` filed in your project's [`config`
file][config].

The following values will also be included in the RSS output if specified:

{{< code-toggle file="config" >}}
languageCode = "en-us"
copyright = "This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License."

[author]
    name = "My Name Here"
{{< /code-toggle >}}

## The Embedded rss.xml

This is the default RSS template that ships with Hugo:

<https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/tpl/tplimpl/embedded/templates/_default/rss.xml>

## Reference your RSS Feed in `<head>`

In your `header.html` template, you can specify your RSS feed in your `<head></head>` tag using Hugo's [Output Formats][Output Formats] like this:

```go-html-template
{{ range .AlternativeOutputFormats -}}
    {{ printf `<link rel="%s" type="%s" href="%s" title="%s" />` .Rel .MediaType.Type .Permalink $.Site.Title | safeHTML }}
{{ end -}}
```

If you only want the RSS link, you can query the formats:

```go-html-template
{{ with .OutputFormats.Get "rss" -}}
    {{ printf `<link rel="%s" type="%s" href="%s" title="%s" />` .Rel .MediaType.Type .Permalink $.Site.Title | safeHTML }}
{{ end -}}
```

Either of the two snippets above will generate the below `link` tag on the site homepage for RSS output:

```html
<link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" href="https://example.com/index.xml" title="Site Title">
```

_We are assuming `BaseURL` to be `https://example.com/` and `$.Site.Title` to be `"Site Title"` in this example._

[config]: /getting-started/configuration/
[embedded]: #the-embedded-rss-xml
[RSS 2.0]: https://cyber.harvard.edu/rss/rss.html "RSS 2.0 Specification"
[section]: /content-management/sections/
[Output Formats]: /templates/output-formats/#link-to-output-formats
