content/en/tools/other.md, before:

---
title: Other community projects
linkTitle: Other projects
description: Some interesting projects developed by the Hugo community that don't quite fit into our other developer tool categories.
categories: [developer tools]
keywords: [frontend,gui]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: developer-tools
    weight: 60
weight: 60
---

And for all the other small things around Hugo:

- [hugo-gallery](https://github.com/icecreammatt/hugo-gallery) lets you create an image gallery for Hugo sites.
- [flickr-hugo-embed](https://github.com/nikhilm/flickr-hugo-embed) prints shortcodes to embed a set of images from an album on Flickr into Hugo.
- [hugo-openapispec-shortcode](https://github.com/tenfourty/hugo-openapispec-shortcode) A shortcode that allows you to include [Open API Spec](https://openapis.org) (formerly known as Swagger Spec) in a page.
- [HugoPhotoSwipe](https://github.com/GjjvdBurg/HugoPhotoSwipe) makes it easy to create image galleries using PhotoSwipe.
- [Hugo SFTP Upload](https://github.com/thomasmey/HugoSftpUpload) Syncs the local build of your Hugo website with your remote web server via SFTP.
- [Emacs Easy Hugo](https://github.com/masasam/emacs-easy-hugo) Emacs package for writing blog posts in Markdown or org-mode and building your site with Hugo.
- [JAMStack Themes](https://jamstackthemes.dev/ssg/hugo/). JAMStack themes is a collection of site themes filterable by static site generator and supported CMS to help build CMS-connected sites using Hugo (linking to Hugo-specific themes).
- [plausible-hugo](https://github.com/divinerites/plausible-hugo). Easy Hugo integration for Plausible Analytics, a simple, open-source, lightweight and privacy-friendly web analytics alternative to Google Analytics.

Commit message:

Add diego to developer tools

content/en/tools/other.md, after:

---
title: Other community projects
linkTitle: Other projects
description: Some interesting projects developed by the Hugo community that don't quite fit into our other developer tool categories.
categories: [developer tools]
keywords: [frontend,gui]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: developer-tools
    weight: 60
weight: 60
---

And for all the other community projects around Hugo:

- [diego](https://github.com/ttybitnik/diego) - A CLI tool that integrates with Hugo to assist in importing and utilizing exported social media data from popular services on Hugo websites.
- [Emacs Easy Hugo](https://github.com/masasam/emacs-easy-hugo) - Emacs package for writing blog posts in Markdown or org-mode and building your site with Hugo.
- [Hugo SFTP Upload](https://github.com/thomasmey/HugoSftpUpload) - Sync the local build of your Hugo website with your remote web server via SFTP.
- [HugoPhotoSwipe](https://github.com/GjjvdBurg/HugoPhotoSwipe) - Make it easy to create image galleries using PhotoSwipe.
- [JAMStack Themes](https://jamstackthemes.dev/ssg/hugo/) -  A collection of site themes filterable by static site generator and supported CMS to help build CMS-connected sites using Hugo (linking to Hugo-specific themes).
- [flickr-hugo-embed](https://github.com/nikhilm/flickr-hugo-embed) - Print shortcodes to embed a set of images from an album on Flickr into Hugo.
- [hugo-gallery](https://github.com/icecreammatt/hugo-gallery) - Create an image gallery for Hugo sites.
- [hugo-openapispec-shortcode](https://github.com/tenfourty/hugo-openapispec-shortcode) - A shortcode that allows you to include [Open API Spec](https://openapis.org) (formerly known as Swagger Spec) in a page.
- [plausible-hugo](https://github.com/divinerites/plausible-hugo) - Easy Hugo integration for Plausible Analytics, a simple, open-source, lightweight and privacy-friendly web analytics alternative to Google Analytics.
