content/en/tools/search.md, before:

---
title: Search tools
linkTitle: Search
description: See some of the open-source and commercial search options for your newly created Hugo website.
categories: [developer tools]
keywords: [search]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: developer-tools
    weight: 40
weight: 40
toc: true
---

A static website with a dynamic search function? Yes, Hugo provides an alternative to embeddable scripts from Google or other search engines for static websites. Hugo allows you to provide your visitors with a custom search function by indexing your content files directly.

## Open-source

[Pagefind](https://github.com/cloudcannon/pagefind)
: A fully static search library that aims to perform well on large sites, while using as little of your users' bandwidth as possible.

[GitHub Gist for Hugo Workflow](https://gist.github.com/sebz/efddfc8fdcb6b480f567)
: This gist contains a simple workflow to create a search index for your static website. It uses a simple Grunt script to index all your content files and [lunr.js](https://lunrjs.com/) to serve the search results.

[hugo-lunr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hugo-lunr)
: A simple way to add site search to your static Hugo site using [lunr.js](https://lunrjs.com/). Hugo-lunr will create an index file of any HTML and Markdown documents in your Hugo project.

[hugo-lunr-zh](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hugo-lunr-zh)
: A bit like Hugo-lunr, but Hugo-lunr-zh can help you separate the Chinese keywords.

[GitHub Gist for Fuse.js integration](https://gist.github.com/eddiewebb/735feb48f50f0ddd65ae5606a1cb41ae)
: This gist demonstrates how to leverage Hugo's existing build time processing to generate a searchable JSON index used by [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/) on the client-side. Although this gist uses Fuse.js for fuzzy matching, any client-side search tool capable of reading JSON indexes will work. Does not require npm, grunt, or other build-time tools except Hugo!

[hugo-search-index](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hugo-search-index)
: A library containing Gulp tasks and a prebuilt browser script that implements search. Gulp generates a search index from project Markdown files.

[hugofastsearch](https://gist.github.com/cmod/5410eae147e4318164258742dd053993)
: A usability and speed update to "GitHub Gist for Fuse.js integration" — global, keyboard-optimized search.

[JS & Fuse.js tutorial](https://makewithhugo.com/add-search-to-a-hugo-site/)
: A simple client-side search solution, using FuseJS (does not require jQuery).

[Hugo Lyra](https://github.com/paolomainardi/hugo-lyra)
: Hugo-Lyra is a JavaScript module to integrate [Lyra](https://github.com/LyraSearch/lyra) into a Hugo website. It contains the server-side part to generate the index and the client-side library (optional) to bootstrap the search engine easily.

## Commercial

[Algolia](https://www.algolia.com/)
: Algolia's Search API makes it easy to deliver a great search experience in your apps and websites. Algolia Search provides hosted full-text, numerical, faceted, and geolocalized search.

[Bonsai](https://www.bonsai.io)
: Bonsai is a fully-managed hosted Elasticsearch service that is fast, reliable, and simple to set up. Easily ingest your docs from Hugo into Elasticsearch following [this guide from the docs](https://bonsai.io/docs/hugo).

[ExpertRec](https://www.expertrec.com/)
: ExpertRec is a hosted search-as-a-service solution that is fast and scalable. Set-up and integration is extremely easy and takes only a few minutes. The search settings can be modified without coding using a dashboard.

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from fcc3ed651..a49697e53
a49697e53 Add private use subtag requirements to multilingual page
a5c6bb4da Add INFINI Pizza search engine
45b732efa Fix template lookup order for AMP pages
30c672d0b netlify: Hugo 0.133.1
7c766e724 Update page resources documentation
ca802fbec Document how to enable AsciiDoc syntax highlighting
c3350f4cf Update definition of falsy to include zero time.Time values
b0e5ab051 Fir typo
60f6cb63b Update migrations.md
ec52c7ba1 Improve formatting of example code
e5681ad01 Improve formatting of example code
bdf3ffc73 Clarify the various next/prev methods
b5505d22a Clarify template lookup order for shortcodes
cf8dd7034 Improve embedded.md
e5dee2651 Update transform.ToMath
4d419a128 Update pagination configuration to use new struct
05d4fd597 Update PrevInSection.md
fd33370ed Add new-in 0.133.0
f9062042f Add the new page config section
205645e97 Remove out-dated  new-in
3ed3673f7 Fix typo
41df91659 Document the 'else with' construct introduced with Go 1.23
9c4697ab3 netlify: Hugo 0.133.0
62506b052 Merge branch 'temp133'
877e1bfcd Add config options page.nextPrevSortOrder/nextPrevInSectionSortOrder
eb159fe62 Update menu.md
efa7795a0 Update theme
dbe8911ad netlify: Hugo 0.132.2
2f793d328 Document passthrough render hooks
a7ce9a5e8 netlify: Hugo 0.132.1
2c137cb48 Update blockquotes.md
e0fa2f0d1 Add new-in badge to blockquote render hook page
bf42bbe6b Update references to render hooks
85a3d9958 Update theme
2dae72128 Document blockquote render hooks
8f5afb55d Update plainify return type
160f22d0e netlify: Hugo 0.132.0
82b5586fb Document transform.ToMath
1efcbcddb tpl/transform: Make Plainify and ToMath return template.HTML
31727be2e docs: Regen docshelper
88a421426 Merge commit 'a6e635ca7d905d9ec3ffd708db2694f680b03aae'

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: a49697e536ee0d477ab4e552cfa8dc74debeff27

content/en/tools/search.md, after:

---
title: Search tools
linkTitle: Search
description: See some of the open-source and commercial search options for your newly created Hugo website.
categories: [developer tools]
keywords: [search]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: developer-tools
    weight: 40
weight: 40
toc: true
---

A static website with a dynamic search function? Yes, Hugo provides an alternative to embeddable scripts from Google or other search engines for static websites. Hugo allows you to provide your visitors with a custom search function by indexing your content files directly.

## Open-source

[Pagefind](https://github.com/cloudcannon/pagefind)
: A fully static search library that aims to perform well on large sites, while using as little of your users' bandwidth as possible.

[GitHub Gist for Hugo Workflow](https://gist.github.com/sebz/efddfc8fdcb6b480f567)
: This gist contains a simple workflow to create a search index for your static website. It uses a simple Grunt script to index all your content files and [lunr.js](https://lunrjs.com/) to serve the search results.

[hugo-lunr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hugo-lunr)
: A simple way to add site search to your static Hugo site using [lunr.js](https://lunrjs.com/). Hugo-lunr will create an index file of any HTML and Markdown documents in your Hugo project.

[hugo-lunr-zh](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hugo-lunr-zh)
: A bit like Hugo-lunr, but Hugo-lunr-zh can help you separate the Chinese keywords.

[GitHub Gist for Fuse.js integration](https://gist.github.com/eddiewebb/735feb48f50f0ddd65ae5606a1cb41ae)
: This gist demonstrates how to leverage Hugo's existing build time processing to generate a searchable JSON index used by [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/) on the client-side. Although this gist uses Fuse.js for fuzzy matching, any client-side search tool capable of reading JSON indexes will work. Does not require npm, grunt, or other build-time tools except Hugo!

[hugo-search-index](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hugo-search-index)
: A library containing Gulp tasks and a prebuilt browser script that implements search. Gulp generates a search index from project Markdown files.

[hugofastsearch](https://gist.github.com/cmod/5410eae147e4318164258742dd053993)
: A usability and speed update to "GitHub Gist for Fuse.js integration" — global, keyboard-optimized search.

[JS & Fuse.js tutorial](https://makewithhugo.com/add-search-to-a-hugo-site/)
: A simple client-side search solution, using FuseJS (does not require jQuery).

[Hugo Lyra](https://github.com/paolomainardi/hugo-lyra)
: Hugo-Lyra is a JavaScript module to integrate [Lyra](https://github.com/LyraSearch/lyra) into a Hugo website. It contains the server-side part to generate the index and the client-side library (optional) to bootstrap the search engine easily.

[INFINI Pizza for WebAssembly](https://github.com/infinilabs/pizza-docsearch) 
: Pizza is a super-lightweight yet fully featured search engine written in Rust. You can quickly add offline search functionality to your Hugo website in just five minutes with only three lines of code. For a step-by-step guide on integrating it with Hugo, check out [this blog tutorial](https://dev.to/medcl/adding-search-functionality-to-a-hugo-static-site-based-on-infini-pizza-for-webassembly-4h5e).


## Commercial

[Algolia](https://www.algolia.com/)
: Algolia's Search API makes it easy to deliver a great search experience in your apps and websites. Algolia Search provides hosted full-text, numerical, faceted, and geolocalized search.

[Bonsai](https://www.bonsai.io)
: Bonsai is a fully-managed hosted Elasticsearch service that is fast, reliable, and simple to set up. Easily ingest your docs from Hugo into Elasticsearch following [this guide from the docs](https://bonsai.io/docs/hugo).

[ExpertRec](https://www.expertrec.com/)
: ExpertRec is a hosted search-as-a-service solution that is fast and scalable. Set-up and integration is extremely easy and takes only a few minutes. The search settings can be modified without coding using a dashboard.
