content/en/functions/safe/JSStr.md, before:

---
title: safe.JSStr
description: Declares the given string as a safe JavaScript string.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  aliases: [safeJSStr]
  related:
    - functions/safe/CSS
    - functions/safe/HTML
    - functions/safe/HTMLAttr
    - functions/safe/JS
    - functions/safe/URL
  returnType: template.JSStr
  signatures: [safe.JSStr INPUT]
aliases: [/functions/safejsstr]
---

Encapsulates a sequence of characters meant to be embedded between quotes in a JavaScript expression. Use of this type presents a security risk: the encapsulated content should come from a trusted source, as it will be included verbatim in the template output.
  
Without declaring a variable to be a safe JavaScript string:

```go-html-template
{{ $title := "Lilo & Stitch" }}
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + {{ $title }};
</script>
```

Rendered:

```html
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + "Lilo \u0026 Stitch";
</script>
```

To avoid escaping by Go's [html/template] package:

```go-html-template
{{ $title := "Lilo & Stitch" }}
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + {{ $title | safeJSStr }};
</script>
```

Rendered:

```html
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + "Lilo & Stitch";
</script>
```

[html/template]: https://pkg.go.dev/html/template

Commit message:

Rework safe functions
Closes #2252
Improves #2196

content/en/functions/safe/JSStr.md, after:

---
title: safe.JSStr
description: Declares the given string as a safe JavaScript string.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  aliases: [safeJSStr]
  related:
    - functions/safe/CSS
    - functions/safe/HTML
    - functions/safe/HTMLAttr
    - functions/safe/JS
    - functions/safe/URL
  returnType: template.JSStr
  signatures: [safe.JSStr INPUT]
toc: true
aliases: [/functions/safejsstr]
---

## Introduction

{{% include "functions/_common/go-html-template-package.md" %}}

## Usage

Use the `safe.JSStr` function to encapsulate a sequence of characters meant to be embedded between quotes in a JavaScript expression.

Use of this type presents a security risk: the encapsulated content should come from a trusted source, as it will be included verbatim in the template output.

See the [Go documentation] for details.

[Go documentation]: https://pkg.go.dev/html/template#JSStr

## Example

Without a safe declaration:

```go-html-template
{{ $title := "Lilo & Stitch" }}
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + {{ $title }};
</script>
```

Hugo renders the above to:

```html
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + "Lilo \u0026 Stitch";
</script>
```

To declare the string as safe:

```go-html-template
{{ $title := "Lilo & Stitch" }}
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + {{ $title | safeJSStr }};
</script>
```

Hugo renders the above to:

```html
<script>
  const a = "Title: " + "Lilo & Stitch";
</script>
```
