content/en/getting-started/configuration-build.md, before:

---
title: Configure build
description: Configure global build options.
categories: [getting started,fundamentals]
keywords: [build,buildStats,cache]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: getting-started
    weight: 70
weight: 70
slug: configuration-build
toc: true
---

The `build` configuration section contains global build-related configuration options.

{{< code-toggle config=build />}}

#### buildStats

See [Configure buildStats](#configure-build-stats).

#### cachebusters

See [Configure Cache Busters](#configure-cache-busters).

#### noJSConfigInAssets

(`bool`) If `true`, turns off writing a `jsconfig.json` into your `assets` directory with mapping of imports from running [js.Build](/hugo-pipes/js). This file is intended to help with intellisense/navigation inside code editors such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Note that if you do not use `js.Build`, no file will be written.

#### useResourceCacheWhen

(`string`) When to use the cached resources in `/resources/_gen` for PostCSS and ToCSS. Valid values are `never`, `always` and `fallback`. The last value means that the cache will be tried if PostCSS/extended version is not available.

## Configure cache busters

The `build.cachebusters` configuration option was added to support development using Tailwind 3.x's JIT compiler where a `build` configuration may look like this:

{{< code-toggle file=hugo >}}
[build]
  [build.buildStats]
    enable = true
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "assets/watching/hugo_stats\\.json"
    target = "styles\\.css"
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "(postcss|tailwind)\\.config\\.js"
    target = "css"
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "assets/.*\\.(js|ts|jsx|tsx)"
    target = "js"
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "assets/.*\\.(.*)$"
    target = "$1"
{{< /code-toggle >}}

When `buildStats` {{< new-in 0.115.1 >}} is enabled, Hugo writes a `hugo_stats.json` file on each build with HTML classes etc. that's used in the rendered output. Changes to this file will trigger a rebuild of the `styles.css` file. You also need to add `hugo_stats.json` to Hugo's server watcher. See [Hugo Starter Tailwind Basic](https://github.com/bep/hugo-starter-tailwind-basic) for a running example.

source
: A regexp matching file(s) relative to one of the virtual component directories in Hugo, typically `assets/...`.

target
: A regexp matching the keys in the resource cache that should be expired when `source` changes. You can use the matching regexp groups from `source` in the expression, e.g. `$1`.

## Configure build stats 

{{< code-toggle config=build.buildStats />}}

{{< new-in 0.115.1 >}}

If `enable` is set to `true`, creates a `hugo_stats.json` file in the root of your project. This file contains arrays of the `class` attributes, `id` attributes, and tags of every HTML element within your published site. Use this file as data source when [removing unused CSS] from your site. This process is also known as pruning, purging, or tree shaking.

[removing unused CSS]: /hugo-pipes/postprocess/#css-purging-with-postcss

Exclude `class` attributes, `id` attributes, or tags from `hugo_stats.json` with the `disableClasses`, `disableIDs`, and `disableTags` keys.

{{% note %}}
Given that CSS purging is typically limited to production builds, place the `buildStats` object below [`config/production`].

[`config/production`]: /getting-started/configuration/#configuration-directory

Built for speed, there may be "false positive" detections (e.g., HTML elements that are not HTML elements) while parsing the published site. These "false positives" are infrequent and inconsequential.
{{% /note %}}

Due to the nature of partial server builds, new HTML entities are added while the server is running, but old values will not be removed until you restart the server or run a regular `hugo` build.

Commit message:

Consistently use "edition" when referring to standard, extended, etc.

content/en/getting-started/configuration-build.md, after:

---
title: Configure build
description: Configure global build options.
categories: [getting started,fundamentals]
keywords: [build,buildStats,cache]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: getting-started
    weight: 70
weight: 70
slug: configuration-build
toc: true
---

The `build` configuration section contains global build-related configuration options.

{{< code-toggle config=build />}}

###### buildStats

See [Configure buildStats](#configure-build-stats).

###### cachebusters

See [Configure Cache Busters](#configure-cache-busters).

###### noJSConfigInAssets

(`bool`) If `true`, turns off writing a `jsconfig.json` into your `assets` directory with mapping of imports from running [js.Build](/hugo-pipes/js). This file is intended to help with intellisense/navigation inside code editors such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Note that if you do not use `js.Build`, no file will be written.

###### useResourceCacheWhen

(`string`) When to use the resource file cache, one of `never`, `fallback`, or `always`. Applicable when transpiling Sass to CSS. Default is `fallback`.

## Configure cache busters

The `build.cachebusters` configuration option was added to support development using Tailwind 3.x's JIT compiler where a `build` configuration may look like this:

{{< code-toggle file=hugo >}}
[build]
  [build.buildStats]
    enable = true
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "assets/watching/hugo_stats\\.json"
    target = "styles\\.css"
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "(postcss|tailwind)\\.config\\.js"
    target = "css"
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "assets/.*\\.(js|ts|jsx|tsx)"
    target = "js"
  [[build.cachebusters]]
    source = "assets/.*\\.(.*)$"
    target = "$1"
{{< /code-toggle >}}

When `buildStats` {{< new-in 0.115.1 >}} is enabled, Hugo writes a `hugo_stats.json` file on each build with HTML classes etc. that's used in the rendered output. Changes to this file will trigger a rebuild of the `styles.css` file. You also need to add `hugo_stats.json` to Hugo's server watcher. See [Hugo Starter Tailwind Basic](https://github.com/bep/hugo-starter-tailwind-basic) for a running example.

source
: A regexp matching file(s) relative to one of the virtual component directories in Hugo, typically `assets/...`.

target
: A regexp matching the keys in the resource cache that should be expired when `source` changes. You can use the matching regexp groups from `source` in the expression, e.g. `$1`.

## Configure build stats 

{{< code-toggle config=build.buildStats />}}

{{< new-in 0.115.1 >}}

If `enable` is set to `true`, creates a `hugo_stats.json` file in the root of your project. This file contains arrays of the `class` attributes, `id` attributes, and tags of every HTML element within your published site. Use this file as data source when [removing unused CSS] from your site. This process is also known as pruning, purging, or tree shaking.

[removing unused CSS]: /hugo-pipes/postprocess/#css-purging-with-postcss

Exclude `class` attributes, `id` attributes, or tags from `hugo_stats.json` with the `disableClasses`, `disableIDs`, and `disableTags` keys.

{{% note %}}
Given that CSS purging is typically limited to production builds, place the `buildStats` object below [`config/production`].

[`config/production`]: /getting-started/configuration/#configuration-directory

Built for speed, there may be "false positive" detections (e.g., HTML elements that are not HTML elements) while parsing the published site. These "false positives" are infrequent and inconsequential.
{{% /note %}}

Due to the nature of partial server builds, new HTML entities are added while the server is running, but old values will not be removed until you restart the server or run a regular `hugo` build.
