content/en/getting-started/quick-start.md, before:

---
title: Quick Start
linktitle: Quick Start
description: Create a Hugo site using the beautiful Ananke theme.
date: 2013-07-01
publishdate: 2013-07-01
categories: [getting started]
keywords: [quick start,usage]
authors: [Shekhar Gulati, Ryan Watters]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "getting-started"
    weight: 10
weight: 10
sections_weight: 10
draft: false
aliases: [/quickstart/,/overview/quickstart/]
toc: true
---

{{% note %}}
This quick start uses `macOS` in the examples. For instructions about how to install Hugo on other operating systems, see [install](/getting-started/installing).

It is required to have [Git installed](https://git-scm.com/downloads) to run this tutorial.

For other approaches to learning Hugo (like books or video tutorials), refer to the [external learning resources](/getting-started/external-learning-resources/) page.
{{% /note %}}

## Step 1: Install Hugo

{{% note %}}
`Homebrew` and `MacPorts`, package managers for `macOS`,  can be installed from [brew.sh](https://brew.sh/) or [macports.org](https://www.macports.org/) respectively. See [install](/getting-started/installing) if you are running Windows etc.
{{% /note %}}

```bash
brew install hugo
# or
port install hugo
```

To verify your new install:

```bash
hugo version
```

{{< asciicast ItACREbFgvJ0HjnSNeTknxWy9 >}}

## Step 2: Create a New Site

```bash
hugo new site quickstart
```

The above will create a new Hugo site in a folder named `quickstart`.

{{< asciicast 3mf1JGaN0AX0Z7j5kLGl3hSh8 >}}

## Step 3: Add a Theme

See [themes.gohugo.io](https://themes.gohugo.io/) for a list of themes to consider. This quickstart uses the beautiful [Ananke theme](https://themes.gohugo.io/gohugo-theme-ananke/).

First, download the theme from GitHub and add it to your site's `themes` directory:

```bash
cd quickstart
git init
git submodule add https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke.git themes/ananke
```

Then, add the theme to the site configuration:

```bash
echo theme = \"ananke\" >> config.toml
```

{{< asciicast 7naKerRYUGVPj8kiDmdh5k5h9 >}}

## Step 4: Add Some Content

You can manually create content files (for example as `content/<CATEGORY>/<FILE>.<FORMAT>`) and provide metadata in them, however you can use the `new` command to do a few things for you (like add title and date):

```
hugo new posts/my-first-post.md
```

{{< asciicast eUojYCfRTZvkEiqc52fUsJRBR >}}

Edit the newly created content file if you want, it will start with something like this:

```markdown
---
title: "My First Post"
date: 2019-03-26T08:47:11+01:00
draft: true
---

```

{{% note %}}
Drafts do not get deployed; once you finish a post, update the header of the post to say `draft: false`. More info [here](/getting-started/usage/#draft-future-and-expired-content).
{{% /note %}}

## Step 5: Start the Hugo server

Now, start the Hugo server with [drafts](/getting-started/usage/#draft-future-and-expired-content) enabled:

{{< asciicast BvJBsF6egk9c163bMsObhuNXj >}}

```
▶ hugo server -D

                   | EN
+------------------+----+
  Pages            | 10
  Paginator pages  |  0
  Non-page files   |  0
  Static files     |  3
  Processed images |  0
  Aliases          |  1
  Sitemaps         |  1
  Cleaned          |  0

Total in 11 ms
Watching for changes in /Users/bep/quickstart/{content,data,layouts,static,themes}
Watching for config changes in /Users/bep/quickstart/config.toml
Environment: "development"
Serving pages from memory
Running in Fast Render Mode. For full rebuilds on change: hugo server --disableFastRender
Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/ (bind address 127.0.0.1)
Press Ctrl+C to stop
```

**Navigate to your new site at [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/).**

Feel free to edit or add new content and you will see the changes in the browser right away while the Hugo server is running. (You might need to force refresh your web browser, something like Ctrl-R usually works.)

## Step 6: Customize the Theme

Your new site already looks great, but you will want to tweak it a little before you release it to the public.

### Site Configuration

Open up `config.toml` in a text editor:

```
baseURL = "https://example.org/"
languageCode = "en-us"
title = "My New Hugo Site"
theme = "ananke"
```

Replace the `title` above with something more personal. Also, if you already have a domain ready, set the `baseURL`. Note that this value is not needed when running the local development server.

{{% note %}}
**Tip:** Make the changes to the site configuration or any other file in your site while the Hugo server is running, and you will see the changes in the browser right away, though you may need to [clear your cache](https://kb.iu.edu/d/ahic).
{{% /note %}}

For theme specific configuration options, see the [theme site](https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke).

**For further theme customization, see [Customize a Theme](/themes/customizing/).**

### Step 7: Build static pages

It is simple. Just call:

```
hugo -D
```

Output will be in `./public/` directory by default (`-d`/`--destination` flag to change it, or set `publishdir` in the config file).

Commit message:

docs: Update quick start to clarify the need of extended version (#1828)
Co-authored-by: Joe Mooring <joe@mooring.com>
Co-authored-by: Christian Oliff <christianoliff@pm.me>

content/en/getting-started/quick-start.md, after:

---
title: Quick Start
linktitle: Quick Start
description: Create a Hugo site using the beautiful Ananke theme.
date: 2013-07-01
publishdate: 2013-07-01
categories: [getting started]
keywords: [quick start,usage]
authors: [Shekhar Gulati, Ryan Watters]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "getting-started"
    weight: 10
weight: 10
sections_weight: 10
draft: false
aliases: [/quickstart/,/overview/quickstart/]
toc: true
---

{{% note %}}
This quick start uses `macOS` in the examples. For instructions about how to install Hugo on other operating systems, see [install](/getting-started/installing).

It is required to have [Git installed](https://git-scm.com/downloads) to run this tutorial.

For other approaches to learning Hugo (like books or video tutorials), refer to the [external learning resources](/getting-started/external-learning-resources/) page.
{{% /note %}}

## Step 1: Install Hugo

Install the **extended version of Hugo** (this is required for the current theme used).

{{% note %}}
`Homebrew` and `MacPorts`, package managers for `macOS`,  can be installed from [brew.sh](https://brew.sh/) or [macports.org](https://www.macports.org/) respectively. See [install](/getting-started/installing) if you are running Windows etc.
{{% /note %}}

```bash
brew install hugo
# or
port install hugo
```

To verify your new install:

```bash
hugo version
# Example output: hugo v0.104.2+extended darwin/amd64 BuildDate=unknown
```

It should state that it is `extended`. If it does not, uninstall it and try another installation method.

{{< asciicast ItACREbFgvJ0HjnSNeTknxWy9 >}}

## Step 2: Create a New Site

```bash
hugo new site quickstart
```

The above will create a new Hugo site in a folder named `quickstart`.

{{< asciicast 3mf1JGaN0AX0Z7j5kLGl3hSh8 >}}

## Step 3: Add a Theme

See [themes.gohugo.io](https://themes.gohugo.io/) for a list of themes to consider. This quickstart uses the beautiful [Ananke theme](https://themes.gohugo.io/gohugo-theme-ananke/).

First, download the theme from GitHub and add it to your site's `themes` directory:

```bash
cd quickstart
git init
git submodule add https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke.git themes/ananke
```

Then, add the theme to the site configuration:

```bash
echo theme = \"ananke\" >> config.toml
```

{{< asciicast 7naKerRYUGVPj8kiDmdh5k5h9 >}}

## Step 4: Add Some Content

You can manually create content files (for example as `content/<CATEGORY>/<FILE>.<FORMAT>`) and provide metadata in them, however you can use the `new` command to do a few things for you (like add title and date):

```
hugo new posts/my-first-post.md
```

{{< asciicast eUojYCfRTZvkEiqc52fUsJRBR >}}

Edit the newly created content file if you want, it will start with something like this:

```markdown
---
title: "My First Post"
date: 2019-03-26T08:47:11+01:00
draft: true
---

```

{{% note %}}
Drafts do not get deployed; once you finish a post, update the header of the post to say `draft: false`. More info [here](/getting-started/usage/#draft-future-and-expired-content).
{{% /note %}}

## Step 5: Start the Hugo server

Now, start the Hugo server with [drafts](/getting-started/usage/#draft-future-and-expired-content) enabled:

{{< asciicast BvJBsF6egk9c163bMsObhuNXj >}}

```
▶ hugo server -D

                   | EN
+------------------+----+
  Pages            | 10
  Paginator pages  |  0
  Non-page files   |  0
  Static files     |  3
  Processed images |  0
  Aliases          |  1
  Sitemaps         |  1
  Cleaned          |  0

Total in 11 ms
Watching for changes in /Users/bep/quickstart/{content,data,layouts,static,themes}
Watching for config changes in /Users/bep/quickstart/config.toml
Environment: "development"
Serving pages from memory
Running in Fast Render Mode. For full rebuilds on change: hugo server --disableFastRender
Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/ (bind address 127.0.0.1)
Press Ctrl+C to stop
```

**Navigate to your new site at [http://localhost:1313/](http://localhost:1313/).**

Feel free to edit or add new content and you will see the changes in the browser right away while the Hugo server is running. (You might need to force refresh your web browser, something like Ctrl-R usually works.)

## Step 6: Customize the Theme

Your new site already looks great, but you will want to tweak it a little before you release it to the public.

### Site Configuration

Open up `config.toml` in a text editor:

```
baseURL = "https://example.org/"
languageCode = "en-us"
title = "My New Hugo Site"
theme = "ananke"
```

Replace the `title` above with something more personal. Also, if you already have a domain ready, set the `baseURL`. Note that this value is not needed when running the local development server.

{{% note %}}
**Tip:** Make the changes to the site configuration or any other file in your site while the Hugo server is running, and you will see the changes in the browser right away, though you may need to [clear your cache](https://kb.iu.edu/d/ahic).
{{% /note %}}

For theme specific configuration options, see the [theme site](https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke).

**For further theme customization, see [Customize a Theme](/themes/customizing/).**

### Step 7: Build static pages

It is simple. Just call:

```
hugo -D
```

Output will be in `./public/` directory by default (`-d`/`--destination` flag to change it, or set `publishdir` in the config file).
