content/en/getting-started/usage.md, before:

---
title: Basic Usage
linktitle: Basic Usage
description: Hugo's CLI is fully featured but simple to use, even for those who have very limited experience working from the command line.
date: 2017-02-01
publishdate: 2017-02-01
categories: [getting started]
keywords: [usage,livereload,command line,flags]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "getting-started"
    weight: 40
weight: 40
sections_weight: 40
aliases: [/overview/usage/,/extras/livereload/,/doc/usage/,/usage/]
toc: true
---

The following is a description of the most common commands you will use while developing your Hugo project. See the [Command Line Reference][commands] for a comprehensive view of Hugo's CLI.

## Test Installation

Once you have [installed Hugo][install], make sure it is in your `PATH`. You can test that Hugo has been installed correctly via the `help` command:

```txt
hugo help
```

The output you see in your console should be similar to the following:

```txt
hugo is the main command, used to build your Hugo site.

Hugo is a Fast and Flexible Static Site Generator
built with love by spf13 and friends in Go.

Complete documentation is available at https://gohugo.io/.

Usage:
  hugo [flags]
  hugo [command]

Available Commands:
  completion  Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  config      Print the site configuration
  convert     Convert your content to different formats
  deploy      Deploy your site to a Cloud provider.
  env         Print Hugo version and environment info
  gen         A collection of several useful generators.
  help        Help about any command
  import      Import your site from others.
  list        Listing out various types of content
  mod         Various Hugo Modules helpers.
  new         Create new content for your site
  server      A high performance webserver
  version     Print the version number of Hugo

Flags:
  -b, --baseURL string             hostname (and path) to the root, e.g. https://spf13.com/
  -D, --buildDrafts                include content marked as draft
  -E, --buildExpired               include expired content
  -F, --buildFuture                include content with publishdate in the future
      --cacheDir string            filesystem path to cache directory. Defaults: $TMPDIR/hugo_cache/
      --cleanDestinationDir        remove files from destination not found in static directories
      --config string              config file (default is path/config.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
  -c, --contentDir string          filesystem path to content directory
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
      --disableKinds strings       disable different kind of pages (home, RSS etc.)
      --enableGitInfo              add Git revision, date, author, and CODEOWNERS info to the pages
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --forceSyncStatic            copy all files when static is changed.
      --gc                         enable to run some cleanup tasks (remove unused cache files) after the build
  -h, --help                       help for hugo
      --ignoreCache                ignores the cache directory
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
  -l, --layoutDir string           filesystem path to layout directory
      --log                        enable Logging
      --logFile string             log File path (if set, logging enabled automatically)
      --minify                     minify any supported output format (HTML, XML etc.)
      --noChmod                    don't sync permission mode of files
      --noTimes                    don't sync modification time of files
      --panicOnWarning             panic on first WARNING log
      --poll string                set this to a poll interval, e.g --poll 700ms, to use a poll based approach to watch for file system changes
      --printI18nWarnings          print missing translations
      --printMemoryUsage           print memory usage to screen at intervals
      --printPathWarnings          print warnings on duplicate target paths etc.
      --printUnusedTemplates       print warnings on unused templates.
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
      --renderToMemory             render to memory (only useful for benchmark testing)
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --templateMetrics            display metrics about template executions
      --templateMetricsHints       calculate some improvement hints when combined with --templateMetrics
  -t, --theme strings              themes to use (located in /themes/THEMENAME/)
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
      --trace file                 write trace to file (not useful in general)
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
      --verboseLog                 verbose logging
  -w, --watch                      watch filesystem for changes and recreate as needed

Use "hugo [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

## The `hugo` Command

The most common usage is probably to run `hugo` with your current directory being the input directory.

This generates your website to the `public/` directory by default, although you can customize the output directory in your [site configuration][config] by changing the `publishDir` field.

The command `hugo` renders your site into `public/` dir and is ready to be deployed to your web server:

```txt
hugo
0 draft content
0 future content
99 pages created
0 paginator pages created
16 tags created
0 groups created
in 90 ms
```

## Draft, Future, and Expired Content

Hugo allows you to set `draft`, `publishdate`, and even `expirydate` in your content's [front matter][]. By default, Hugo will not publish:

1. Content with a future `publishdate` value
2. Content with `draft: true` status
3. Content with a past `expirydate` value

All three of these can be overridden during both local development *and* deployment by adding the following flags to `hugo` and `hugo server`, respectively, or by changing the boolean values assigned to the fields of the same name (without `--`) in your [configuration][config]:

1. `--buildFuture`
2. `--buildDrafts`
3. `--buildExpired`

## LiveReload

Hugo comes with [LiveReload](https://github.com/livereload/livereload-js) built in. There are no additional packages to install. A common way to use Hugo while developing a site is to have Hugo run a server with the `hugo server` command and watch for changes:

```txt
hugo server
0 draft content
0 future content
99 pages created
0 paginator pages created
16 tags created
0 groups created
in 120 ms
Watching for changes in /Users/yourname/sites/yourhugosite/{data,content,layouts,static}
Serving pages from /Users/yourname/sites/yourhugosite/public
Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/
Press Ctrl+C to stop
```

This will run a fully functioning web server while simultaneously watching your file system for additions, deletions, or changes within the following areas of your [project organization][dirs]:

* `/static/*`
* `/content/*`
* `/data/*`
* `/i18n/*`
* `/layouts/*`
* `/themes/<CURRENT-THEME>/*`
* `config`

Whenever you make changes, Hugo will simultaneously rebuild the site and continue to serve content. As soon as the build is finished, LiveReload tells the browser to silently reload the page.

Most Hugo builds are so fast that you may not notice the change unless looking directly at the site in your browser. This means that keeping the site open on a second monitor (or another half of your current monitor) allows you to see the most up-to-date version of your website without the need to leave your text editor.

{{% note "Closing `</body>` Tag"%}}
Hugo injects the LiveReload `<script>` before the closing `</body>` in your templates and will therefore not work if this tag is not present..
{{% /note %}}

### Redirect automatically to the page you just saved

When you are working with more than one document and want to see the markup as real-time as possible it's not ideal to keep jumping between them.
Fortunately Hugo has an easy, embedded and simple solution for this. It's the flag `--navigateToChanged`.

### Disable LiveReload

LiveReload works by injecting JavaScript into the pages Hugo generates. The script creates a connection from the browser's web socket client to the Hugo web socket server.

The following methods make it easy to disable LiveReload:

```txt
hugo server --watch=false
```

Or...

```txt
hugo server --disableLiveReload
```

The latter flag can be omitted by adding the following:

{{< code-toggle file="config" >}}
disableLiveReload = true
{{< /code-toggle >}}

## Deploy Your Website

After running `hugo server` for local web development, you need to do a final `hugo` run *without the `server` part of the command* to rebuild your site. You may then deploy your site by copying the `public/` directory to your production web server.

Since Hugo generates a static website, your site can be hosted *anywhere* using any web server. See [Hosting and Deployment][hosting] for methods for hosting and automating deployments contributed by the Hugo community.

{{% warning "Generated Files are **NOT** Removed on Site Build" %}}
Running `hugo` *does not* remove generated files before building. This means that you should delete your `public/` directory (or the publish directory you specified via flag or configuration file) before running the `hugo` command. If you do not remove these files, you run the risk of the wrong files (e.g., drafts or future posts) being left in the generated site.
{{% /warning %}}


[commands]: /commands/
[config]: /getting-started/configuration/
[dirs]: /getting-started/directory-structure/
[front matter]: /content-management/front-matter/
[hosting]: /hosting-and-deployment/
[install]: /installation/

Commit message:

docs: Clarify how to remove draft/future/expired content (#1831)
- clarify that removing draft, future, and expired content only works if you delete the destination dir
- use unordered lists for draft/future/expired content options
- copy edit Deploy Your Website warning to mention cleanDestinationDir option and add helpful links to draft/future/expired settings.
- copy edit and clarify options to override the default output dir
- Added helpful links

content/en/getting-started/usage.md, after:

---
title: Basic Usage
linktitle: Basic Usage
description: Hugo's CLI is fully featured but simple to use, even for those who have very limited experience working from the command line.
date: 2017-02-01
publishdate: 2017-02-01
categories: [getting started]
keywords: [usage,livereload,command line,flags]
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "getting-started"
    weight: 40
weight: 40
sections_weight: 40
aliases: [/overview/usage/,/extras/livereload/,/doc/usage/,/usage/]
toc: true
---

The following is a description of the most common commands you will use while developing your Hugo project. See the [Command Line Reference][commands] for a comprehensive view of Hugo's CLI.

## Test Installation

Once you have [installed Hugo][install], make sure it is in your `PATH`. You can test that Hugo has been installed correctly via the `help` command:

```txt
hugo help
```

The output you see in your console should be similar to the following:

```txt
hugo is the main command, used to build your Hugo site.

Hugo is a Fast and Flexible Static Site Generator
built with love by spf13 and friends in Go.

Complete documentation is available at https://gohugo.io/.

Usage:
  hugo [flags]
  hugo [command]

Available Commands:
  completion  Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  config      Print the site configuration
  convert     Convert your content to different formats
  deploy      Deploy your site to a Cloud provider.
  env         Print Hugo version and environment info
  gen         A collection of several useful generators.
  help        Help about any command
  import      Import your site from others.
  list        Listing out various types of content
  mod         Various Hugo Modules helpers.
  new         Create new content for your site
  server      A high performance webserver
  version     Print the version number of Hugo

Flags:
  -b, --baseURL string             hostname (and path) to the root, e.g. https://spf13.com/
  -D, --buildDrafts                include content marked as draft
  -E, --buildExpired               include expired content
  -F, --buildFuture                include content with publishdate in the future
      --cacheDir string            filesystem path to cache directory. Defaults: $TMPDIR/hugo_cache/
      --cleanDestinationDir        remove files from destination not found in static directories
      --config string              config file (default is path/config.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
  -c, --contentDir string          filesystem path to content directory
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
      --disableKinds strings       disable different kind of pages (home, RSS etc.)
      --enableGitInfo              add Git revision, date, author, and CODEOWNERS info to the pages
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --forceSyncStatic            copy all files when static is changed.
      --gc                         enable to run some cleanup tasks (remove unused cache files) after the build
  -h, --help                       help for hugo
      --ignoreCache                ignores the cache directory
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
  -l, --layoutDir string           filesystem path to layout directory
      --log                        enable Logging
      --logFile string             log File path (if set, logging enabled automatically)
      --minify                     minify any supported output format (HTML, XML etc.)
      --noChmod                    don't sync permission mode of files
      --noTimes                    don't sync modification time of files
      --panicOnWarning             panic on first WARNING log
      --poll string                set this to a poll interval, e.g --poll 700ms, to use a poll based approach to watch for file system changes
      --printI18nWarnings          print missing translations
      --printMemoryUsage           print memory usage to screen at intervals
      --printPathWarnings          print warnings on duplicate target paths etc.
      --printUnusedTemplates       print warnings on unused templates.
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
      --renderToMemory             render to memory (only useful for benchmark testing)
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --templateMetrics            display metrics about template executions
      --templateMetricsHints       calculate some improvement hints when combined with --templateMetrics
  -t, --theme strings              themes to use (located in /themes/THEMENAME/)
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
      --trace file                 write trace to file (not useful in general)
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
      --verboseLog                 verbose logging
  -w, --watch                      watch filesystem for changes and recreate as needed

Use "hugo [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

## The `hugo` Command

The most common usage is to run [`hugo`](/commands/hugo/) with your current directory as the input directory.

By default, this generates your site files in the `public/` directory. To set a different output directory, use the command option [`--destination`](/commands/hugo/#options) or set [`publishDir`](/getting-started/configuration/#publishdir) in your site configuration file.

The command `hugo` renders your site into `public/` and is ready to be deployed to your web server:

```txt
hugo
0 draft content
0 future content
99 pages created
0 paginator pages created
16 tags created
0 groups created
in 90 ms
```

## Draft, Future, and Expired Content

Hugo allows you to set `draft`, `publishdate`, and `expirydate` in your content's [front matter][]. By default, Hugo will not publish the following:

* Content with a future `publishdate` value.
* Content with `draft: true` status.
* Content with a past `expirydate` value.

{{% note %}}
If content was previously published, you must use [`--cleanDestinationDir`](/commands/hugo/#options) to remove draft, future, and expired pages from your publish directory.
{{% /note %}}

All three of these can be overridden during both local development *and* deployment by adding the following flags to `hugo` and `hugo server`, respectively, or by changing the boolean values assigned to the fields of the same name (without `--`) in your [configuration][config]:

* `--buildFuture`
* `--buildDrafts`
* `--buildExpired`

## LiveReload

Hugo comes with [LiveReload](https://github.com/livereload/livereload-js) built in. There are no additional packages to install. A common way to use Hugo while developing a site is to have Hugo run a server with the `hugo server` command and watch for changes:

```txt
hugo server
0 draft content
0 future content
99 pages created
0 paginator pages created
16 tags created
0 groups created
in 120 ms
Watching for changes in /Users/yourname/sites/yourhugosite/{data,content,layouts,static}
Serving pages from /Users/yourname/sites/yourhugosite/public
Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/
Press Ctrl+C to stop
```

This will run a fully functioning web server while simultaneously watching your file system for additions, deletions, or changes within the following areas of your [project organization][dirs]:

* `/static/*`
* `/content/*`
* `/data/*`
* `/i18n/*`
* `/layouts/*`
* `/themes/<CURRENT-THEME>/*`
* `config`

Whenever you make changes, Hugo will simultaneously rebuild the site and continue to serve content. As soon as the build is finished, LiveReload tells the browser to silently reload the page.

Most Hugo builds are so fast that you may not notice the change unless looking directly at the site in your browser. This means that keeping the site open on a second monitor (or another half of your current monitor) allows you to see the most up-to-date version of your website without the need to leave your text editor.

{{% note "Closing `</body>` Tag"%}}
Hugo injects the LiveReload `<script>` before the closing `</body>` in your templates and will therefore not work if this tag is not present..
{{% /note %}}

### Redirect automatically to the page you just saved

When you are working with more than one document and want to see the markup as real-time as possible it's not ideal to keep jumping between them.
Fortunately Hugo has an easy, embedded and simple solution for this. It's the flag `--navigateToChanged`.

### Disable LiveReload

LiveReload works by injecting JavaScript into the pages Hugo generates. The script creates a connection from the browser's web socket client to the Hugo web socket server.

The following methods make it easy to disable LiveReload:

```txt
hugo server --watch=false
```

Or...

```txt
hugo server --disableLiveReload
```

The latter flag can be omitted by adding the following:

{{< code-toggle file="config" >}}
disableLiveReload = true
{{< /code-toggle >}}

## Deploy Your Website

After running `hugo server` for local web development, you need to do a final `hugo` run *without the `server` part of the command* to rebuild your site. You may then deploy your site by copying the `public/` directory to your production web server.

Since Hugo generates a static website, your site can be hosted *anywhere* using any web server. See [Hosting and Deployment][hosting] for methods for hosting and automating deployments contributed by the Hugo community.

{{% warning "Generated Files are **NOT** Removed on Site Build" %}}
Running `hugo` *does not* remove generated files before building. This means that you should delete your `public/` directory (or the publish directory you specified via flag or configuration file) before running the `hugo` command, or use the [`--cleanDestinationDir`](/commands/hugo/#options) option. If you do not remove these files, you run the risk of unintended pages (e.g., [draft, expired, or future posts](#draft-future-and-expired-content)) appearing in the generated site.
{{% /warning %}}


[commands]: /commands/
[config]: /getting-started/configuration/
[dirs]: /getting-started/directory-structure/
[front matter]: /content-management/front-matter/
[hosting]: /hosting-and-deployment/
[install]: /installation/
