content/en/commands/hugo_version.md, before:

---
title: "hugo version"
slug: hugo_version
url: /commands/hugo_version/
---
## hugo version

Print the version number of Hugo

### Synopsis

All software has versions. This is Hugo's.

```
hugo version [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for version
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
      --debug                      debug output
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --log                        enable Logging
      --logFile string             log File path (if set, logging enabled automatically)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
      --verboseLog                 verbose logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo](/commands/hugo/)	 - hugo builds your site

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 39af43ef1..1798dc0d5
1798dc0d5 Update theme
403fa716e Update CLI documentation (#2092)
aade5a09e Correct media subtype example
53cd9dea6 netlify: Hugo 0.112.3
b78b86cb1 Add source/target warning to resources.Copy (#2091)
50c299729 netlify: Hugo 0.112.2
73197046f Change config.xxx to hugo.xxx throughout the documentation (#2090)
d489d4c6f Add hugo.WorkingDir to docs (#2089)
7487df809 Fix typos (#2088)
6d0572cd6 netlify: Hugo 0.112.1
6838600b2 netlify: Hugo 0.112.0
513e7a80f Merge branch 'tempv0.112.0'
91eb44275 Some more about 0.112.0
bd3b33a27 docs: Regen docshelper
fb3027daf docs: Regen CLI docs
8e7b8e987 Merge commit 'f96384a3b596f9bc0a3a035970b09b2c601f0ccb'
a942ceef4 tpl/tplimpl: Add img loading attribute to figure shortcode  (#10927)
0e0c7b25e tpl/urls: Return empty string when JoinPath has zero args
310ce949a tpl/urls: Add JoinPath template function
ae435ca77 tpl: Add math.Abs
f340139f8 Revert "Update syntax-highlighting.md (#10929)" (#10930)
917a0e24d Update syntax-highlighting.md (#10929)

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: 1798dc0d54ce048dd975863b490cd809ef14268a

content/en/commands/hugo_version.md, after:

---
title: "hugo version"
slug: hugo_version
url: /commands/hugo_version/
---
## hugo version

Print Hugo version and environment info

### Synopsis

Print Hugo version and environment info. This is useful in Hugo bug reports.

```
hugo version [flags] [args]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for version
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --format string              preferred file format (toml, yaml or json) (default "toml")
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --log                        enable Logging
      --logFile string             log File path (if set, logging enabled automatically)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
      --verboseLog                 verbose logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo](/commands/hugo/)	 - hugo builds your site
