content/en/commands/hugo_mod_get.md, before:

---
title: "hugo mod get"
slug: hugo_mod_get
url: /commands/hugo_mod_get/
---
## hugo mod get

Resolves dependencies in your current Hugo Project.

### Synopsis


Resolves dependencies in your current Hugo Project.

Some examples:

Install the latest version possible for a given module:

    hugo mod get github.com/gohugoio/testshortcodes
    
Install a specific version:

    hugo mod get github.com/gohugoio/testshortcodes@v0.3.0

Install the latest versions of all module dependencies:

    hugo mod get -u
    hugo mod get -u ./... (recursive)

Run "go help get" for more information. All flags available for "go get" is also relevant here.

Note that Hugo will always start out by resolving the components defined in the site
configuration, provided by a _vendor directory (if no --ignoreVendorPaths flag provided),
Go Modules, or a folder inside the themes directory, in that order.

See https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/ for more information.



```
hugo mod get [flags] [args]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for get
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --logLevel string            log level (debug|info|warn|error)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo mod](/commands/hugo_mod/)	 - Various Hugo Modules helpers.

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 686c7b6eb..7ef2dbce4
7ef2dbce4 Cleanup RSS templates page
0e23d5e1a Fix multilingual permalinks example
b3c342b07 Update faq.md
f73109ae2 Regen CLI docs
ac6ee2027 Fix minor nitpicks (#2233)
f24fcffe1 Mention the Giscus comments system (#2234)
418fa981e Remove reference to Ghost migration tool
94a76df29 Adjust table layout
e263ad6b9 content: Fix typos
fd1eb26b5 Update featured image in digital.gov showcase
d3d946555 Correct directory description
bbe1dff56 Use sentence case for heading
acfa0be54 Add hosting provider fetch depth to GitInfo variables page
d78c427e6 Fix typo
751517fea Fix spelling mistake
cdd77aa9a Update content for v0.118.0
c77d09b1c Format netlify.toml
d5a6c4f51 netlify: Hugo 0.118.1
8c717301a Revert "netlify: Hugo 0.118.0"
a9b2ef5c2 netlify: Hugo 0.118.0
61959591c Merge commit '77b976dd92b4f66657d83d875aef0c617df492d9'
95f2029a1 docs: Regen docs helper
fd57ba960 markup/goldmark: Add CJK extension
2bfb3bf4c docshelper: Improve template lookup order descriptions
b0baa890e cache: Hide IsResourceDir from the exported config
b4b071ea0 docs: Replace docs.json with docs.yaml

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: 7ef2dbce4ad728d32c218761c6cfbe2f58f8da16

content/en/commands/hugo_mod_get.md, after:

---
title: "hugo mod get"
slug: hugo_mod_get
url: /commands/hugo_mod_get/
---
## hugo mod get

Resolves dependencies in your current Hugo Project.

### Synopsis


Resolves dependencies in your current Hugo Project.

Some examples:

Install the latest version possible for a given module:

    hugo mod get github.com/gohugoio/testshortcodes
    
Install a specific version:

    hugo mod get github.com/gohugoio/testshortcodes@v0.3.0

Install the latest versions of all direct module dependencies:

    hugo mod get
    hugo mod get ./... (recursive)

Install the latest versions of all module dependencies (direct and indirect):

    hugo mod get -u
    hugo mod get -u ./... (recursive)

Run "go help get" for more information. All flags available for "go get" is also relevant here.

Note that Hugo will always start out by resolving the components defined in the site
configuration, provided by a _vendor directory (if no --ignoreVendorPaths flag provided),
Go Modules, or a folder inside the themes directory, in that order.

See https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/ for more information.



```
hugo mod get [flags] [args]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for get
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --logLevel string            log level (debug|info|warn|error)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo mod](/commands/hugo_mod/)	 - Various Hugo Modules helpers.
