content/en/commands/hugo_config.md, before:

---
title: "hugo config"
slug: hugo_config
url: /commands/hugo_config/
---
## hugo config

Print the site configuration

### Synopsis

Print the site configuration, both default and custom settings.

```
hugo config [command] [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for config
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --format string              preferred file format (toml, yaml or json) (default "toml")
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --log                        enable Logging
      --logFile string             log File path (if set, logging enabled automatically)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
      --verboseLog                 verbose logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo](/commands/hugo/)	 - hugo builds your site
* [hugo config mounts](/commands/hugo_config_mounts/)	 - Print the configured file mounts

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 1798dc0d5..1d5548d73
1d5548d73 build.cachebusters
3c966904d netlify: Hugo 0.112.5
b32c3a811 Bump min Go version to 1.19 when building from source (#2095)
9dea2d2f9 netlify: Hugo 0.112.4
b3fb4a1bc docs: Regenerate CLI docs
291ecd301 docs: Regen CLI docs
c886958e2 Merge commit 'd3927310d5b2404c3238f9b899db3329ea516490'

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: 1d5548d7355be39364404a67eee7186d5ea71930

content/en/commands/hugo_config.md, after:

---
title: "hugo config"
slug: hugo_config
url: /commands/hugo_config/
---
## hugo config

Print the site configuration

### Synopsis

Print the site configuration, both default and custom settings.

```
hugo config [command] [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -b, --baseURL string      hostname (and path) to the root, e.g. https://spf13.com/
      --cacheDir string     filesystem path to cache directory. Defaults: $TMPDIR/hugo_cache/
  -c, --contentDir string   filesystem path to content directory
      --format string       preferred file format (toml, yaml or json) (default "toml")
  -h, --help                help for config
  -t, --theme strings       themes to use (located in /themes/THEMENAME/)
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --log                        enable Logging
      --logFile string             log File path (if set, logging enabled automatically)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
      --verboseLog                 verbose logging
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo](/commands/hugo/)	 - hugo builds your site
* [hugo config mounts](/commands/hugo_config_mounts/)	 - Print the configured file mounts
