content/en/commands/hugo_server.md, before:

---
title: "hugo server"
slug: hugo_server
url: /commands/hugo_server/
---
## hugo server

Start the embedded web server

### Synopsis

Hugo provides its own webserver which builds and serves the site.
While hugo server is high performance, it is a webserver with limited options.

The `hugo server` command will by default write and serve files from disk, but
you can render to memory by using the `--renderToMemory` flag. This can be
faster in some cases, but it will consume more memory.

By default hugo will also watch your files for any changes you make and
automatically rebuild the site. It will then live reload any open browser pages
and push the latest content to them. As most Hugo sites are built in a fraction
of a second, you will be able to save and see your changes nearly instantly.

```
hugo server [command] [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --appendPort               append port to baseURL (default true)
  -b, --baseURL string           hostname (and path) to the root, e.g. https://spf13.com/
      --bind string              interface to which the server will bind (default "127.0.0.1")
  -D, --buildDrafts              include content marked as draft
  -E, --buildExpired             include expired content
  -F, --buildFuture              include content with publishdate in the future
      --cacheDir string          filesystem path to cache directory
      --cleanDestinationDir      remove files from destination not found in static directories
  -c, --contentDir string        filesystem path to content directory
      --disableBrowserError      do not show build errors in the browser
      --disableFastRender        enables full re-renders on changes
      --disableKinds strings     disable different kind of pages (home, RSS etc.)
      --disableLiveReload        watch without enabling live browser reload on rebuild
      --enableGitInfo            add Git revision, date, author, and CODEOWNERS info to the pages
      --forceSyncStatic          copy all files when static is changed.
      --gc                       enable to run some cleanup tasks (remove unused cache files) after the build
  -h, --help                     help for server
      --ignoreCache              ignores the cache directory
  -l, --layoutDir string         filesystem path to layout directory
      --liveReloadPort int       port for live reloading (i.e. 443 in HTTPS proxy situations) (default -1)
      --minify                   minify any supported output format (HTML, XML etc.)
  -N, --navigateToChanged        navigate to changed content file on live browser reload
      --noBuildLock              don't create .hugo_build.lock file
      --noChmod                  don't sync permission mode of files
      --noHTTPCache              prevent HTTP caching
      --noTimes                  don't sync modification time of files
      --panicOnWarning           panic on first WARNING log
      --poll string              set this to a poll interval, e.g --poll 700ms, to use a poll based approach to watch for file system changes
  -p, --port int                 port on which the server will listen (default 1313)
      --pprof                    enable the pprof server (port 8080)
      --printI18nWarnings        print missing translations
      --printMemoryUsage         print memory usage to screen at intervals
      --printPathWarnings        print warnings on duplicate target paths etc.
      --printUnusedTemplates     print warnings on unused templates.
      --renderSegments strings   named segments to render (configured in the segments config)
      --renderStaticToDisk       serve static files from disk and dynamic files from memory
      --templateMetrics          display metrics about template executions
      --templateMetricsHints     calculate some improvement hints when combined with --templateMetrics
  -t, --theme strings            themes to use (located in /themes/THEMENAME/)
      --tlsAuto                  generate and use locally-trusted certificates.
      --tlsCertFile string       path to TLS certificate file
      --tlsKeyFile string        path to TLS key file
      --trace file               write trace to file (not useful in general)
  -w, --watch                    watch filesystem for changes and recreate as needed (default true)
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
      --debug                      debug output
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --logLevel string            log level (debug|info|warn|error)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -M, --renderToMemory             render to memory (mostly useful when running the server)
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
  -v, --verbose                    verbose output
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo](/commands/hugo/)	 - Build your site
* [hugo server trust](/commands/hugo_server_trust/)	 - Install the local CA in the system trust store.

Commit message:

Squashed 'docs/' changes from 227aab619..8390a4a3a
8390a4a3a Add Void Linux installation instructions
d6099aae8 Update link to PostCSS plugins
25dad4693 netlify: Hugo 0.139.4
2b1fa118c Fix typo
3ef1eb505 Update hosting-on-aws-amplify
c0f6d35d6 Fix typo
aa54d4301 Correct directory name
98aa26bdb Improve instructions for hosting with AWS Amplify
a07638a80 Add new-in badges
6ad018055 netlify: Hugo 0.139.3
1050835d6 Update title of hugo.Store page
ebbd2e851 Clarify the shortcode Ordinal method
b7716ed95 Revise code block render hook for Mermaid diagrams
f1da9b6ea netlify: Hugo 0.139.2
d8ac9f428 Downgrade the Go toolchain in go.mod to a slightly older Go version
254b3c4f2 netlify: Hugo 0.139.1
03e666038 Add hugo.Store, site.Store and Shortcode.Store
157e8983b Update Anchorize.md
59fa9f214 Document the PageRef menu entry method
bda544cce docs(transform.Unmarshal): match lang attribute to title language in examples
1985886bd Adjust front matter of shared Markdown snippets
da5bd70d1 Fix typo
431b65d6b Update theme
b63ef69f5 Update style guidance
d50ed3422 Remove old new-in badges
12bfb9933 Update docs.yaml
0b936cacd netlify: Hugo 0.139.0
ab7668b4d dartsass: Add silenceDeprecations option
154df9bfc Merge commit '838bd312b1a287bb33962ad478dbc54737654f35'
efa80477c docs: Regen CLI docs
ad99e4a7a docs: Regenerate CLI docs

git-subtree-dir: docs
git-subtree-split: 8390a4a3ac36094f4cf47170af23b636608c420e

content/en/commands/hugo_server.md, after:

---
title: "hugo server"
slug: hugo_server
url: /commands/hugo_server/
---
## hugo server

Start the embedded web server

### Synopsis

Hugo provides its own webserver which builds and serves the site.
While hugo server is high performance, it is a webserver with limited options.

The `hugo server` command will by default write and serve files from disk, but
you can render to memory by using the `--renderToMemory` flag. This can be
faster in some cases, but it will consume more memory.

By default hugo will also watch your files for any changes you make and
automatically rebuild the site. It will then live reload any open browser pages
and push the latest content to them. As most Hugo sites are built in a fraction
of a second, you will be able to save and see your changes nearly instantly.

```
hugo server [command] [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --appendPort               append port to baseURL (default true)
  -b, --baseURL string           hostname (and path) to the root, e.g. https://spf13.com/
      --bind string              interface to which the server will bind (default "127.0.0.1")
  -D, --buildDrafts              include content marked as draft
  -E, --buildExpired             include expired content
  -F, --buildFuture              include content with publishdate in the future
      --cacheDir string          filesystem path to cache directory
      --cleanDestinationDir      remove files from destination not found in static directories
  -c, --contentDir string        filesystem path to content directory
      --disableBrowserError      do not show build errors in the browser
      --disableFastRender        enables full re-renders on changes
      --disableKinds strings     disable different kind of pages (home, RSS etc.)
      --disableLiveReload        watch without enabling live browser reload on rebuild
      --enableGitInfo            add Git revision, date, author, and CODEOWNERS info to the pages
      --forceSyncStatic          copy all files when static is changed.
      --gc                       enable to run some cleanup tasks (remove unused cache files) after the build
  -h, --help                     help for server
      --ignoreCache              ignores the cache directory
  -l, --layoutDir string         filesystem path to layout directory
      --liveReloadPort int       port for live reloading (i.e. 443 in HTTPS proxy situations) (default -1)
      --minify                   minify any supported output format (HTML, XML etc.)
  -N, --navigateToChanged        navigate to changed content file on live browser reload
      --noBuildLock              don't create .hugo_build.lock file
      --noChmod                  don't sync permission mode of files
      --noHTTPCache              prevent HTTP caching
      --noTimes                  don't sync modification time of files
  -O, --openBrowser              open the site in a browser after server startup
      --panicOnWarning           panic on first WARNING log
      --poll string              set this to a poll interval, e.g --poll 700ms, to use a poll based approach to watch for file system changes
  -p, --port int                 port on which the server will listen (default 1313)
      --pprof                    enable the pprof server (port 8080)
      --printI18nWarnings        print missing translations
      --printMemoryUsage         print memory usage to screen at intervals
      --printPathWarnings        print warnings on duplicate target paths etc.
      --printUnusedTemplates     print warnings on unused templates.
      --renderSegments strings   named segments to render (configured in the segments config)
      --renderStaticToDisk       serve static files from disk and dynamic files from memory
      --templateMetrics          display metrics about template executions
      --templateMetricsHints     calculate some improvement hints when combined with --templateMetrics
  -t, --theme strings            themes to use (located in /themes/THEMENAME/)
      --tlsAuto                  generate and use locally-trusted certificates.
      --tlsCertFile string       path to TLS certificate file
      --tlsKeyFile string        path to TLS key file
      --trace file               write trace to file (not useful in general)
  -w, --watch                    watch filesystem for changes and recreate as needed (default true)
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --clock string               set the clock used by Hugo, e.g. --clock 2021-11-06T22:30:00.00+09:00
      --config string              config file (default is hugo.yaml|json|toml)
      --configDir string           config dir (default "config")
  -d, --destination string         filesystem path to write files to
  -e, --environment string         build environment
      --ignoreVendorPaths string   ignores any _vendor for module paths matching the given Glob pattern
      --logLevel string            log level (debug|info|warn|error)
      --quiet                      build in quiet mode
  -M, --renderToMemory             render to memory (mostly useful when running the server)
  -s, --source string              filesystem path to read files relative from
      --themesDir string           filesystem path to themes directory
```

### SEE ALSO

* [hugo](/commands/hugo/)	 - Build your site
* [hugo server trust](/commands/hugo_server_trust/)	 - Install the local CA in the system trust store.
